


































































































































































                                                          HAMLET.'
                                                         Exeunt.
                                                         Exeunt.
                                                         Exeunt.
                                                         Exeunt.
                                                         Exeunt.
                                                        [Reads.]
                                                     Exit Ghost.
                                                     Exit Ghost.
                                                    Attendants].
                                                    [He] sleeps.
                                                   [Exit Queen.]
                                                   [They swear.]
                                                  Exit Reynaldo.
                                                 Exeunt Players.
                                                 The cock crows.
                                                Exit [Polonius].
                                                Exit [Polonius].
                                                [Exit Polonius.]
                                                [Ghost beckons.]
                                                [Gives a paper.]
                                               Exeunt Gentlemen.
                                               Spreads his arms.
                                             [Reads] the letter.
                                            [Exit First Player.]
                                           Ghost beckons Hamlet.
                                        Exeunt Ghost and Hamlet.
                                        Exeunt [all but Hamlet].
                                        [Exeunt all but Hamlet.]
                                      Exeunt King and Polonius].
                                   Pours the poison in his ears.
                                  [Sits down at Ophelia's feet.]
                                 Exeunt Voltemand and Cornelius.
                                Flourish. Exeunt all but Hamlet.
                              Exeunt all but Hamlet and Horatio.
                              [Polonius hides behind the arras.]
                            Enter Polonius.
                            Exeunt Rosencrantz and Guildenstern.
                            [Exeunt Rosencrantz and Guildenstern
                           Enter Hamlet.
                          Enter Hamlet.
                         Enter Ghost.
                         Enter Hamlet.
                         Enter Lucianus.
                         Enter Polonius.
                         [Lifts up the arras and sees Polonius.]
                        Enter Ghost.
                        Enter Polonius.
                       Enter Ophelia.
                       Enter Polonius.
                       Exeunt King and Queen, [with Attendants].
                       carrying torches.
                      Enter Ghost again.
                      Enter Horatio.
                      Enter Prologue.
                     Enter four or five Players.
                     Enter the Players with recorders.
                     Flourish for the Players.
                    Enter Horatio and Marcellus.
                    Enter Rosencrantz and Guildenstern.
                   A flourish of trumpets, and two pieces go off.
                   Enter Horatio and Marcellus.
                   Enter King and Polonius.
                   Enter Polonius.
                 Enter Hamlet, reading on a book.
                 Exeunt Polonius and Players [except the First].
                 Exeunt Rosencrantz and Guildenstern, [with some
                 Ghost cries under the stage.
                Enter Rosencrantz and Guildenstern.
                Enter the Ghost in his nightgown.
               Hautboys play. The dumb show enters.
              Enter Polonius, Voltemand, and Cornelius.
              Enter [two Players as] King and Queen.
            But never doubt I love.
            Doubt that the sun doth move;
            Enter Polonius, Rosencrantz, and Guildenstern.
            [Makes a pass through the arras and] kills Polonius.
           'As by lot, God wot,'
           'It came to pass, as most like it was.'
           A very, very- pajock.
           The which he loved passing well.'
           This realm dismantled was
          'Doubt thou the stars are fire;
          Doubt truth to be a liar;
          Enter Horatio, Marcellus, and Bernardo.
          The hart ungalled play;
          Thus runs the world away.
         'One fair daughter, and no more,
         'The rugged Pyrrhus, he whose sable arms,
         'The rugged Pyrrhus, like th' Hyrcanian beast-'
         And thus o'ersized with coagulate gore,
         Bak'd and impasted with the parching streets,
         Black as his purpose, did the night resemble
         For if the King like not the comedy,
         For some must watch, while some must sleep:
         For thou dost know, O Damon dear,
         Hath now this dread and black complexion smear'd
         Now is be total gules, horridly trick'd
         Of Jove himself; and now reigns here
         Old grandsire Priam seeks.'
         That lend a tyrannous and a damned light
         To their lord's murther. Roasted in wrath and fire,
         When he lay couched in the ominous horse,
         Why then, belike he likes it not, perdy.
         With blood of fathers, mothers, daughters, sons,
         With eyes like carbuncles, the hellish Pyrrhus
         With heraldry more dismal. Head to foot
      'Gainst Fortune's state would treason have pronounc'd.
      'O dear Ophelia, I am ill at these numbers; I have not art to
      'Thine evermore, most dear lady, whilst this machine is to him,
      (Unless things mortal move them not at all)
      A blanket, in the alarm of fear caught up-
      A second time I kill my husband dead
      A silence in the heavens, the rack stand still,
      About her lank and all o'erteemed loins,
      About the world have times twelve thirties been,
      An anchor's cheer in prison be my scope,
      And as my love is siz'd, my fear is so.
      And bowl the round nave down the hill of heaven,
      And hitherto doth love on fortune tend,
      And never come mischance between us twain!
      And never did the Cyclops' hammers fall
      And passion in the gods.'
      And thirty dozed moons with borrowed sheen
      And thou shalt live in this fair world behind,
      And who in want a hollow friend doth try,
      And, like a neutral to his will and matter,
      Are base respects of thrift, but none of love.
      Aroused vengeance sets him new awork;
      As hush as death- anon the dreadful thunder
      As low as to the fiends!
      Both here and hence pursue me lasting strife,
      Break all the spokes and fellies from her wheel,
      But die thy thoughts when thy first lord is dead.
      But fill unshaken when they mellow be.
      But if the gods themselves did see her then,
      But what we do determine oft we break.
      But with the whiff and wind of his fell sword
      But woe is me! you are so sick of late,
      But, as we often see, against some storm,
      But, orderly to end where I begun,
      Confederate season, else no creature seeing;
      Did nothing.
      Directly seasons him his enemy.
      Discomfort you, my lord, it nothing must;
      Doth rend the region; so, after Pyrrhus' pause,
      Each opposite that blanks the face of joy
      For 'tis a question left us yet to prove,
      For husband shalt thou-
      For who not needs shall never lack a friend,
      For women's fear and love holds quantity,
      Grief joys, joy grieves, on slender accident.
      Guildenstern, and other Lords attendant, with the Guard
      Here stooping to your clemency,
      Honour'd, belov'd, and haply one as kind
      If, once a widow, ever I be wife!
      In Mincing with his sword her husband's limbs,
      In general synod take away her power;
      In neither aught, or in extremity.
      Make us again count o'er ere love be done!
      Meet what I would have well, and it destroy,
      Most necessary 'tis that we forget
      My operant powers their functions leave to do.
      My spirits grow dull, and fain I would beguile
      Neptune's salt wash and Tellus' orbed ground,
      None wed the second but who killed the first.
      Now falls on Priam.
      Now what my love is, proof hath made you know;
      Of reverend Priam, seem'd i' th' air to stick.
      Of violent birth, but poor validity;
      On Mars's armour, forg'd for proof eterne,
      On wholesome life usurp immediately.
      Ophelia,'-
      Our thoughts are ours, their ends none of our own.
      Our wills and fates do so contrary run
      Out, out, thou strumpet Fortune! All you gods,
      Purpose is but the slave to memory,
      Pyrrhus at Priam drives, in rage strikes wide;
      Rebellious to his arm, lies where it falls,
      Repugnant to command. Unequal match'd,
      Seeming to feel this blow, with flaming top
      Since love our hearts, and Hymen did our hands,
      So far from cheer and from your former state.
      So think thou wilt no second husband wed;
      So, as a painted tyrant, Pyrrhus stood,
      Sport and repose lock from me day and night,
      Stoops to his base, and with a hideous crash
      Striking too short at Greeks. His antique sword,
      Such love must needs be treason in my breast.
      Takes prisoner Pyrrhus' ear. For lo! his sword,
      Th' unnerved father falls. Then senseless Ilium,
      That I distrust you. Yet, though I distrust,
      That even our loves should with our fortunes change;
      That our devices still are overthrown;
      The bold winds speechless, and the orb below
      The great man down, you mark his favourite flies,
      The instant burst of clamour that she made
      The passion ending, doth the purpose lose.
      The poor advanc'd makes friends of enemies;
      The tedious day with sleep.
      The violence of either grief or joy
      Their own enactures with themselves destroy.
      This world is not for aye, nor 'tis not strange
      Thou mixture rank, of midnight weeds collected,
      Thy natural magic and dire property
      To desperation turn my trust and hope,
      To pay ourselves what to ourselves is debt.
      Unite comutual in most sacred bands.
      We beg your hearing patiently.                     [Exit.]
      What to ourselves in passion we propose,
      When second husband kisses me in bed.
      When second husband let me be accurst!
      When she saw Pyrrhus make malicious sport
      Where joy most revels, grief doth most lament;
      Where late the diadem stood, and for a robe,
      Where little fears grow great, great love grows there.
      Where love is great, the littlest doubts are fear;
      Whether love lead fortune, or else fortune love.
      Which now, like fruit unripe, sticks on the tree,
      Which was declining on the milky head
      Who this had seen, with tongue in venom steep'd
      With Hecate's ban thrice blasted, thrice infected,
      With bisson rheum; a clout upon that head
      With less remorse than Pyrrhus' bleeding sword
      Would have made milch the burning eyes of heaven
      be otherwise.
      phrase.
     discretion.
    'Good sir,' or so, or 'friend,' or 'gentleman'-
    'I saw him enter such a house of sale,'
    'In her excellent white bosom, these, &c.'
    'Lord Hamlet is a prince, out of thy star.
    'Swounds, I should take it! for it cannot be
    'That can denote me truly. These indeed seem,
    'This must be so.' We pray you throw to earth
    'Tis given out that, sleeping in my orchard,
    'Tis heavy with him; and am I then reveng'd,
    'Tis meet that some more audience than a mother,
    'Tis not alone my inky cloak, good mother,
    'Tis not so; it begins with Pyrrhus:
    'Tis now the very witching time of night,
    'Tis strange.
    'Tis told me he hath very oft of late
    'Tis too much prov'd, that with devotion's visage
    'To the celestial, and my soul's idol, the most beautified
    'twere, the mirror up to nature; to show Virtue her own feature,
    (As I perceiv'd it, I must tell you that,
    (As I perchance hereafter shall think meet
    (For so this side of our known world esteem'd him)
    (For which, they say, you spirits oft walk in death),
    (Marcellus and Bernardo) on their watch
    (O God! a beast that wants discourse of reason
    (for the most part) are capable of nothing but inexplicable dumb
    A broken voice, and his whole function suiting
    A brother's murther! Pray can I not,
    A combination and a form indeed
    A couch for luxury and damned incest.
    A cutpurse of the empire and the rule,
    A damn'd defeat was made. Am I a coward?
    A double blessing is a double grace;
    A dull and muddy-mettled rascal, peak
    A fault against the dead, a fault to nature,
    A heart unfortified, a mind impatient,
    A little ere the mightiest Julius fell,
    A little month, or ere those shoes were old
    A man that Fortune's buffets and rewards
    A rhapsody of words! Heaven's face doth glow;
    A sable silver'd.
    A savageness in unreclaimed blood,
    A scullion!
    A serpent stung me. So the whole ear of Denmark
    A slave that is not twentieth part the tithe
    A station like the herald Mercury
    A villain kills my father; and for that,
    A violet in the youth of primy nature,
    A worthy pioner! Once more remove, good friends."
    Abuses me to damn me. I'll have grounds
    According to the phrase or the addition
    Addicted so and so'; and there put on him
    Adieu, adieu, adieu! Remember me.                      Exit.
    Admit no messengers, receive no tokens.
    Affront Ophelia.
    Against the which a moiety competent
    Against thy mother aught. Leave her to heaven,
    Against yourself. I know you are no truant.
    All given to mine ear.
    All may be well.                                  He kneels.
    All my smooth body.
    All saws of books, all forms, all pressures past
    Almost to jelly with the act of fear,
    An eye like Mars, to threaten and command;
    An understanding simple and unschool'd;
    And (would it were not so!) you are my mother.
    And I am sick at heart.
    And I believe it is a fetch of warrant.
    And I beseech you instantly to visit
    And I do doubt the hatch and the disclose
    And I do think- or else this brain of mine
    And I with them the third night kept the watch;
    And I'll be plac'd so please you, in the ear
    And I, of ladies most deject and wretched,
    And a most instant tetter bark'd about,
    And after we will both our judgments join
    And all we mourn for.
    And at our more consider'd time we'll read,
    And at the sound it shrunk in haste away
    And batten on this moor? Ha! have you eyes
    And bid me hold my peace. I pray you all,
    And borrowing dulls the edge of husbandry.
    And both neglect. What if this cursed hand
    And bow them to your gracious leave and pardon.
    And bring these gentlemen where Hamlet is.
    And by opposing end them. To die- to sleep-
    And can say nothing! No, not for a king,
    And carriage of the article design'd,
    And cleave the general ear with horrid speech;
    And convoy is assistant, do not sleep,
    And could of men distinguish, her election
    And crook the pregnant hinges of the knee
    And curd, like eager droppings into milk,
    And do such bitter business as the day
    And draw you into madness? Think of it.
    And drive his purpose on to these delights.
    And duller shouldst thou be than the fat weed
    And each particular hair to stand an end
    And end his being. That done, he lets me go,
    And enterprises of great pith and moment
    And even the like precurse of fierce events,
    And fall a-cursing like a very drab,
    And for my soul, what can it do to that,
    And for the day confin'd to fast in fires,
    And for your part, Ophelia, I do wish
    And foreign mart for implements of war;
    And gather by him, as he is behav'd,
    And gins to pale his uneffectual fire.
    And he beseech'd me to entreat your Majesties
    And he not from his reason fall'n thereon
    And he to England shall along with you.
    And he, repulsed, a short tale to make,
    And hears it roar beneath.
    And here give up ourselves, in the full bent,
    And his commission to employ those soldiers,
    And how his audit stands, who knows save heaven?
    And how, and who, what means, and where they keep,
    And in part him.' Do you mark this, Reynaldo?
    And in the morn and liquid dew of youth
    And in the porches of my ears did pour
    And it must follow, as the night the day,
    And keep you in the rear of your affection,
    And lay your hands again upon my sword.
    And leads the will to desperate undertakings
    And let me wring your heart; for so I shall
    And let thine eye look like a friend on Denmark.
    And let us hear Bernardo speak of this.
    And let us once again assail your ears,
    And lose the name of action.- Soft you now!
    And lose your voice. What wouldst thou beg, Laertes,
    And makes each petty artire in this body
    And makes us rather bear those ills we have
    And meant to wrack thee; but beshrew my jealousy!
    And melt in her own fire. Proclaim no shame
    And more above, hath his solicitings,
    And much offence too. Touching this vision here,
    And my imaginations are as foul
    And my young mistress thus I did bespeak:
    And now I'll do't. And so he goes to heaven,
    And now no soil nor cautel doth besmirch
    And now, Laertes, what's the news with you?
    And oft 'tis seen the wicked prize itself
    And our vain blows malicious mockery.
    And pious action we do sugar o'er
    And pity 'tis 'tis true. A foolish figure!
    And prey on garbage.
    And prologue to the omen coming on,
    And put it in his pocket!
    And reason panders will.
    And recks not his own rede.
    And scape detecting, I will pay the theft.
    And sets a blister there; makes marriage vows
    And shall I couple hell? Hold, hold, my heart!
    And since so neighbour'd to his youth and haviour,
    And so am I reveng'd. That would be scann'd.
    And so, without more circumstance at all,
    And still your fingers on your lips, I pray.
    And sure I am two men there are not living
    And tediousness the limbs and outward flourishes,
    And tell you what I know.
    And terms compulsatory, those foresaid lands
    And that his soul may be as damn'd and black
    And that in way of caution- I must tell you
    And that your Grace hath screen'd and stood between
    And the King's rouse the heaven shall bruit again,
    And then, they say, no spirit dare stir abroad,
    And there I see such black and grained spots
    And there assume some other, horrible form
    And there did seem in him a kind of joy
    And therefore must his choice be circumscrib'd
    And these few precepts in thy memory
    And they in France of the best rank and station
    And thrice his head thus waving up and down,
    And thus do we of wisdom and of reach,
    And thus the native hue of resolution
    And thy best graces spend it at thy will!
    And thy commandment all alone shall live
    And to the last bended their light on me.
    And to the manner born, it is a custom
    And to those thorns that in her bosom lodge
    And vanish'd from our sight.
    And waits upon the judgment; and what judgment
    And we beseech you, bend you to remain
    And we did think it writ down in our duty
    And what make you from Wittenberg, Horatio?
    And what so poor a man as Hamlet is
    And what's in prayer but this twofold force,
    And whatsoever else shall hap to-night,
    And why such daily cast of brazen cannon
    And will not let belief take hold of him
    And with a larger tether may he walk
    And with a look so piteous in purport
    And with a sudden vigour it doth posset
    And with his head over his shoulder turn'd
    And with no less nobility of love
    And with them words of so sweet breath compos'd
    And you are stay'd for. There- my blessing with thee!
    And you yourself shall keep the key of it.
    And you, my sinews, grow not instant old,
    And, as I think, they have already order
    And, as he drains his draughts of Rhenish down,
    And, as you said, and wisely was it said,
    And, like a man to double business bound,
    And, sister, as the winds give benefit
    And, with his other hand thus o'er his brow,
    Answer, and think upon this business.
    Appears before them and with solemn march
    Are burnt and purg'd away. But that I am forbid
    Are joyfully return'd.
    Are mortis'd and adjoin'd; which when it falls,
    Are most select and generous, chief in that.
    Armed at point exactly, cap-a-pe,
    Art more engag'd! Help, angels! Make assay.
    As 'Well, well, we know,' or 'We could, an if we would,'
    As 'twere a thing a little soil'd i' th' working,
    As I do thee. Something too much of this I
    As Vulcan's stithy. Give him heedful note;
    As any the most vulgar thing to sense,
    As are companions noted and most known
    As deep as to the lungs? Who does me this, ha?
    As e'er my conversation cop'd withal.
    As false as dicers' oaths. O, such a deed
    As fits a king's remembrance.
    As from the body of contraction plucks
    As harbingers preceding still the fates
    As hardy as the Nemean lion's nerve.
    As he in his particular act and place
    As he is very potent with such spirits,
    As he would draw it. Long stay'd he so.
    As hell, whereto it goes. My mother stays.
    As if he had been loosed out of hell
    As if increase of appetite had grown
    As if it some impartment did desire
    As in their birth,- wherein they are not guilty,
    As infinite as man may undergo-
    As it behooves my daughter and your honour.
    As it did seem to shatter all his bulk
    As it doth well appear unto our state,
    As it hath us'd to do- that I have found
    As it is common for the younger sort
    As kill a king, and marry with his brother.
    As made the things more rich. Their perfume lost,
    As may dishonour him- take heed of that;
    As meditation or the thoughts of love,
    As needful in our loves, fitting our duty?
    As of a father; for let the world take note
    As oft as any passion under heaven
    As one, in suff'ring all, that suffers nothing;
    As stars with trains of fire, and dews of blood,
    As therein are set down.
    As they fell out by time, by means, and place,
    As thus, 'I know his father and his friends,
    As to expend your time with us awhile
    As to give words or talk with the Lord Hamlet.
    As watchman to my heart. But, good my brother,
    As will not leave their tinct.
    As you are friends, scholars, and soldiers,
    At gaming, swearing, or about some act
    At last, a little shaking of mine arm,
    At least I am sure it may be so in Denmark.        [Writes.]
    At least, the whisper goes so. Our last king,
    Attends the boist'rous ruin. Never alone
    Awake the god of day; and at his warning,
    Ay, thou poor ghost, while memory holds a seat
    Be all my sins rememb'red.
    Be as ourself in Denmark. Madam, come.
    Be soft as sinews of the new-born babe!
    Be something scanter of your maiden presence.
    Be thou a spirit of health or goblin damn'd,
    Be thou familiar, but by no means vulgar:
    Be thy intents wicked or charitable,
    Be wary then; best safety lies in fear.
    Be you and I behind an arras then.
    Bear't that th' opposed may beware of thee.
    Been struck so to the soul that presently
    Been thus encount'red. A figure like your father,
    Before You visit him, to make inquire
    Before mine uncle. I'll observe his looks;
    Before my daughter told me), what might you,
    Behind the arras I'll convey myself
    Being a thing immortal as itself?
    Being nature's livery, or fortune's star,
    Believe so much in him, that he is young,
    Blasted with ecstasy. O, woe is me
    Blasting his wholesome brother. Have you eyes?
    Both to my God and to my gracious king;
    Bow, stubborn knees; and heart with strings of steel,
    Break we our watch up; and by my advice
    Breathing like sanctified and pious bawds,
    Brief let me be. Sleeping within my orchard,
    Bring with thee airs from heaven or blasts from hell,
    But I am pigeon-liver'd and lack gall
    But I have that within which passeth show-
    But answer made it none. Yet once methought
    But bear me stiffly up. Remember thee?
    But better look'd into, he truly found
    But break my heart, for I must hold my tongue!
    But come!
    But do not dull thy palm with entertainment
    But do not go with it!
    But even then the morning cock crew loud,
    But farewell it, for I will use no art.
    But from what cause he will by no means speak.
    But he's an arrant knave.
    But if you hold it fit, after the play
    But if't be he I mean, he's very wild
    But in a fiction, in a dream of passion,
    But in our circumstance and course of thought,
    But it reserv'd some quantity of choice
    But keep a farm and carters.
    But let me hear from you.
    But let that go.
    But look, amazement on thy mother sits.
    But look, the morn, in russet mantle clad,
    But mere implorators of unholy suits,
    But not express'd in fancy; rich, not gaudy;
    But now, my cousin Hamlet, and my son-
    But soft! behold! Lo, where it comes again!
    But soft! methinks I scent the morning air.
    But that the dread of something after death-
    But the great cannon to the clouds shall tell,
    But this eternal blazon must not be
    But this most foul, strange, and unnatural.
    But to confront the visage of offence?
    But to my mind, though I am native here
    But to recover of us, by strong hand
    But truly I do fear it.
    But two months dead! Nay, not so much, not two.
    But virtue, as it never will be mov'd,
    But what is your affair in Elsinore?
    But what, in faith, make you from Wittenberg?
    But with a crafty madness keeps aloof
    But you must know, your father lost a father;
    But you shall hear. Thus:
    But you'll be secret?
    But, howsoever thou pursuest this act,
    But, in the gross and scope of my opinion,
    But, sir, such wanton, wild, and usual slips
    Buys out the law; but 'tis not so above.
    By heaven, I'll make a ghost of him that lets me!-
    By heaven, it is as proper to our age
    By indirections find directions out.
    By laboursome petition, and at last
    By the mass, I was about to say something! Where did I leave?
    By the o'ergrowth of some complexion,
    By their oppress'd and fear-surprised eyes,
    By this encompassment and drift of question
    By what it fed on; and yet, within a month-
    Calls virtue hypocrite; takes off the rose
    Can serve my turn? 'Forgive me my foul murther'?
    Carrying, I say, the stamp of one defect,
    Carve for himself, for on his choice depends
    Christians, nor the gait of Christian, pagan, nor man, have so
    Colleagued with this dream of his advantage,
    Come hither, gentlemen,
    Come on! You hear this fellow in the cellarage.
    Come, some music!
    Come.
    Comes armed through our watch, so like the King
    Conceit in weakest bodies strongest works.
    Confound the ignorant, and amaze indeed
    Consent to swear.
    Contagion to this world. Now could I drink hot blood
    Contagious blastments are most imminent.
    Costly thy habit as thy purse can buy,
    Could force his soul so to his own conceit
    Could not so mope.
    Could you on this fair mountain leave to feed,
    Cut off even in the blossoms of my sin,
    Dar'd to the combat; in which our valiant Hamlet
    Denmark?- What, my young lady and mistress? By'r Lady, your
    Devoutly to be wish'd. To die- to sleep.
    Did coldly furnish forth the marriage tables.
    Did forfeit, with his life, all those his lands
    Did slay this Fortinbras; who, by a seal'd compact,
    Did sometimes march? By heaven I charge thee speak!
    Did squeak and gibber in the Roman streets;
    Did the king sigh, but with a general groan.
    Dies not alone, but like a gulf doth draw
    Disasters in the sun; and the moist star
    Do I impart toward you. For your intent
    Do not as some ungracious pastors do,
    Do not believe his vows; for they are brokers,
    Do not for ever with thy vailed lids
    Do not itself unkennel in one speech,
    Do you believe his tenders, as you call them?
    Do you consent we shall acquaint him with it,
    Does not divide the Sunday from the week.
    Doom'd for a certain term to walk the night,
    Dost thou hear me, old friend? Can you play 'The Murther of
    Doth all the noble substance often dout To his own scandal.
    Doth make the night joint-labourer with the day?
    Doth with his lofty and shrill-sounding throat
    Drabbing. You may go so far.
    Each small annexment, petty consequence,
    Ears without hands or eyes, smelling sans all,
    Else could you not have motion; but sure that sense
    Elsinore.
    Enquire me first what Danskers are in Paris;
    Enter a King and a Queen very lovingly; the Queen embracing
    Ere yet the salt of most unrighteous tears
    Even in their promise, as it is a-making,
    Even to the teeth and forehead of our faults,
    Even with the very comment of thy soul
    Extorted treasure in the womb of earth
    Eyes without feeling, feeling without sight,
    Farewell, and let your haste commend your duty.
    Farewell.
    Farewell. My blessing season this in thee!
    Fear it, Ophelia, fear it, my dear sister,
    Fell into a sadness, then into a fast,
    Fie on't! ah, fie! 'Tis an unweeded garden
    Fie upon't! foh! About, my brain! Hum, I have heard
    Fix'd on the summit of the highest mount,
    For Hecuba!
    For I mine eyes will rivet to his face,
    For bearers of this greeting to old Norway,
    For every man hath business and desire,
    For food and diet, to some enterprise
    For he himself is subject to his birth.
    For in that sleep of death what dreams may come
    For it is as the air, invulnerable,
    For loan oft loses both itself and friend,
    For look you how cheerfully my mother looks, and my father died
    For murther, though it have no tongue, will speak
    For nature crescent does not grow alone
    For out o' doors he went without their help
    For the apparel oft proclaims the man,
    For the demand of our neglected tribute.
    For the supply and profit of our hope,
    For they are actions that a man might play;
    For this effect defective comes by cause.
    For we have closely sent for Hamlet hither,
    For we will fetters put upon this fear,
    For what advancement may I hope from thee,
    For what we know must be, and is as common
    For who would bear the whips and scorns of time,
    For your desire to know what is between us,
    Form of the thing, each word made true and good,
    Forward, not permanent- sweet, not lasting;
    From fashion of himself. What think you on't?
    From me, whose love was of that dignity
    From our achievements, though perform'd at height,
    From that particular fault. The dram of e'il
    From the fair forehead of an innocent love,
    From the first corse till he that died to-day,
    From whence though willingly I came to Denmark
    Get from him why he puts on this confusion,
    Get you a place.
    Give every man thine ear, but few thy voice;
    Give it an understanding but no tongue.
    Give me one poor request.
    Give you good night.                                   Exit.
    Given private time to you, and you yourself
    Gives him three thousand crowns in annual fee
    Giving more light than heat, extinct in both
    Giving to you no further personal power
    Go on. I'll follow thee.
    Go to your rest; at night we'll feast together.
    God bless you, sir!
    God willing, shall not lack. Let us go in together;
    Goes slow and stately by them. Thrice he walk'd
    Gonzago'?
    Good gentlemen, give him a further edge
    Good my lord, will you see the players well bestow'd? Do you
    Grapple them unto thy soul with hoops of steel;
    Grating so harshly all his days of quiet
    Grows wide withal. Perhaps he loves you now,
    Had he been vanquisher, as, by the same comart
    Had he the motive and the cue for passion
    Had left the flushing in her galled eyes,
    Had made his course t' illume that part of heaven
    Haply the seas, and countries different,
    Hast ta'en with equal thanks; and blest are those
    Hath given me this. Now gather, and surmise.
    Hath in the skirts of Norway, here and there,
    Hath op'd his ponderous and marble jaws
    Hath scald thee for herself. For thou hast been
    Have burst their cerements; why the sepulchre
    Have by the very cunning of the scene
    Have heaven and earth together demonstrated
    Have of your audience been most free and bounteous.
    Have we, as 'twere with a defeated joy,
    Have you so slander any moment leisure
    Having ever seen in the prenominate crimes
    Hazard so near us as doth hourly grow
    He closes thus: 'I know the gentleman.
    He closes with you in this consequence:
    He falls to such perusal of my face
    He hath not fail'd to pester us with message
    He may approve our eyes and speak to it.
    He may not, as unvalued persons do,
    He rais'd a sigh so piteous and profound
    He seem'd to find his way without his eyes,
    He smote the sledded Polacks on the ice.
    He tells me, my dear Gertrude, he hath found
    He took my father grossly, full of bread,
    He's for a jig or a tale of bawdry, or he sleeps. Say on; come to
    Hecuba.
    Help, help, ho!
    Her father and myself (lawful espials)
    Here in the cheer and comfort of our eye,
    Here in the lobby.
    Here is your husband, like a mildew'd ear
    Here, as before, never, so help you mercy,
    Himself the primrose path of dalliance treads
    His access to me.
    His canon 'gainst self-slaughter! O God! God!
    His father's death and our o'erhasty marriage.
    His fell to Hamlet. Now, sir, young Fortinbras,
    His further gait herein, in that the levies,
    His greatness weigh'd, his will is not his own;
    His nephew's levies; which to him appear'd
    Hold it a fashion, and a toy in blood;
    Hold you the watch to-night?
    Holding a weak supposal of our worth,
    Holds such an enmity with blood of man
    Horatio!- or I do forget myself.
    How does my good Lord Hamlet?
    How does your honour for this many a day?
    How in my words somever she be shent,
    How now, Ophelia? What's the matter?
    How now, my lord? Will the King hear this piece of work?
    How smart a lash that speech doth give my conscience!
    How strange or odd soe'er I bear myself
    How weary, stale, flat, and unprofitable
    Hunts not the trail of policy so sure
    Hyperion to a satyr; so loving to my mother
    Hyperion's curls; the front of Jove himself;
    I am sorry that with better heed and judgment
    I am very proud, revengeful, ambitious; with more offences at my
    I cannot dream of. I entreat you both
    I chiefly lov'd. 'Twas AEneas' tale to Dido, and thereabout of it
    I could a tale unfold whose lightest word
    I did repel his letters and denied
    I do beseech you give him leave to go.
    I do not set my life at a pin's fee;
    I doubt some foul play. Would the night were come!
    I had not quoted him. I fear'd he did but trifle
    I have a daughter (have while she is mine),
    I have in quick determination
    I have sworn't.
    I hold it fit that we shake hands and part;
    I hold my duty as I hold my soul,
    I know my course. The spirit that I have seen
    I made to her in marriage, and to decline
    I never gave you aught.
    I pray thee stay with us, go not to Wittenberg.
    I pray you, now receive them.
    I prithee, when thou seest that act afoot,
    I saw him yesterday, or t'other day,
    I say, away!- Go on. I'll follow thee.
    I shall not look upon his like again.
    I should have fatted all the region kites
    I stand in pause where I shall first begin,
    I stay too long. But here my father comes.
    I think it was to see my mother's wedding.
    I took thee for thy better. Take thy fortune.
    I will be brief. Your noble son is mad.
    I will requite your loves. So, fare you well.
    I will speak daggers to her, but use none.
    I would know that.
    I would not, in plain terms, from this time forth
    I your commission will forthwith dispatch,
    I'll board him presently. O, give me leave.
    I'll call upon you ere you go to bed
    I'll cross it, though it blast me.- Stay illusion!
    I'll speak to it, though hell itself should gape
    I'll tent him to the quick. If he but blench,
    I'll visit you.
    I'll wipe away all trivial fond records,
    I, his sole son, do this same villain send
    If I had play'd the desk or table book,
    If circumstances lead me, I will find
    If damned custom have not braz'd it so
    If he steal aught the whilst this play is playing,
    If it be made of penetrable stuff;
    If it be so- as so 'tis put on me,
    If it shall please you to make me a wholesome answer, I will do
    If she unmask her beauty to the moon.
    If there be any good thing to be done,
    If thou art privy to thy country's fate,
    If thou canst mutine in a matron's bones,
    If thou didst ever thy dear father love-
    If thou hast any sound, or use of voice,
    If with too credent ear you list his songs,
    If you do meet Horatio and Marcellus,
    If you have hitherto conceal'd this sight,
    If't be th' affliction of his love, or no,
    Importing the surrender of those lands
    In censure of his seeming.
    In dreadful secrecy impart they did,
    In equal scale weighing delight and dole,
    In filial obligation for some term
    In going back to school in Wittenberg,
    In his true nature, and we ourselves compell'd,
    In honourable fashion.
    In my heart's core, ay, in my heart of heart,
    In noise so rude against me?
    In obstinate condolement is a course
    In the corrupted currents of this world
    In the dead vast and middle of the night
    In the most high and palmy state of Rome,
    In the rank sweat of an enseamed bed,
    In thews and bulk; but as this temple waxes,
    In this distracted globe. Remember thee?
    In which the majesty of buried Denmark
    Into the madness wherein now he raves,
    Is apoplex'd; for madness would not err,
    Is but to whet thy almost blunted purpose.
    Is by a forged process of my death
    Is death of fathers, and who still hath cried,
    Is it not monstrous that this player here,
    Is not more ugly to the thing that helps it
    Is not this something more than fantasy?
    Is sicklied o'er with the pale cast of thought,
    Is the main motive of our preparations,
    Is there not rain enough in the sweet heavens
    Is thought-sick at the act.
    It fits your wisdom so far to believe it
    It hath the primal eldest curse upon't,
    It is 'Adieu, adieu! Remember me.'
    It is a damned ghost that we have seen,
    It is an honest ghost, that let me tell you.
    It is most retrograde to our desire;
    It is not, nor it cannot come to good.
    It lifted up it head and did address
    It shows a will most incorrect to heaven,
    It was against your Highness; whereat griev'd,
    It waves me forth again. I'll follow it.
    It waves you to a more removed ground.
    Itself to motion, like as it would speak;
    Keeps wassail, and the swagg'ring upspring reels,
    King, father, royal Dane. O, answer me?
    King. 'Tis deeply sworn. Sweet, leave me here awhile.
    King. Faith, I must leave thee, love, and shortly too;
    King. Full thirty times hath Phoebus' cart gone round
    King. I do believe you think what now you speak;
    Leave wringing of your hinds. Peace! sit you down
    Lends the tongue vows. These blazes, daughter,
    Let his queen mother all alone entreat him
    Let it be tenable in your silence still;
    Let me be cruel, not unnatural;
    Let me be no assistant for a state,
    Let me not burst in ignorance, but tell
    Let me not think on't! Frailty, thy name is woman!-
    Let not the royal bed of Denmark be
    Let us impart what we have seen to-night
    Let's do't, I pray; and I this morning know
    Like John-a-dreams, unpregnant of my cause,
    Like Niobe, all tears- why she, even she
    Like quills upon the fretful porpentine.
    Like sweet bells jangled, out of tune and harsh;
    Look thou character. Give thy thoughts no tongue,
    Look to't, I charge you. Come your ways.
    Look you, I'll go pray.
    Lord Hamlet, with his doublet all unbrac'd,
    Lost by his father, with all bands of law,
    Luc. Thoughts black, hands apt, drugs fit, and time agreeing;
    Mad call I it; for, to define true madness,
    Mad let us grant him then. And now remains
    Madness in great ones must not unwatch'd go.         Exeunt.
    Make mad the guilty and appal the free,
    Make thy two eyes, like stars, start from their spheres,
    Makes us traduc'd and tax'd of other nations;
    Makes vow before his uncle never more
    Making night hideous, and we fools of nature
    Marcellus?
    Mark the encounter. If he love her not,
    Mark you,
    May be a devil; and the devil hath power
    May do t' express his love and friending to you,
    May give his saying deed; which is no further
    May one be pardon'd and retain th' offence?
    May sweep to my revenge.
    Meantime we thank you for your well-took labour.
    Might, by the sovereign power you have of us,
    More grief to hide than hate to utter love.
    More honour'd in the breach than the observance.
    More relative than this. The play's the thing
    More than his father's death, that thus hath put him
    Moreover that we much did long to see you,
    Most free in his reply.
    Most holy and religious fear it is
    Most lazar-like, with vile and loathsome crust
    Most welcome home!                       Exeunt Ambassadors.
    Much heat and him. I'll silence me even here.
    Must (like a whore) unpack my heart with words
    Must I remember? Why, she would hang on him
    Must give us pause. There's the respect
    Must render up myself.
    My crown, mine own ambition, and my queen.
    My custom always of the afternoon,
    My father's brother, but no more like my father
    My father's spirit- in arms? All is not well.
    My father- methinks I see my father.
    My fault is past. But, O, what form of prayer
    My good friends, I'll leave you till night. You are welcome to
    My liege, and madam, to expostulate
    My lord, not I.
    My news shall be the fruit to that great feast.
    My stronger guilt defeats my strong intent,
    My tables! Meet it is I set it down
    My thoughts and wishes bend again toward France
    My tongue and soul in this be hypocrites-
    My too much changed son.- Go, some of you,
    My uncle?
    Nay, come, let's go together.
    Neither a borrower nor a lender be;
    Never to speak of this that you have heard:
    New lighted on a heaven-kissing hill:
    No fairy takes, nor witch hath power to charm,
    No hat upon his head, his stockings foul'd,
    No jocund health that Denmark drinks to-day
    No more, sweet Hamlet!
    No more.
    No more; and by a sleep to say we end
    No reckoning made, but sent to my account
    No traveller returns- puzzles the will,
    No, let the candied tongue lick absurd pomp,
    No, nor the fruitful river in the eye,
    No.
    Nor any unproportion'd thought his act.
    Nor customary suits of solemn black,
    Nor sense to ecstacy was ne'er so thrall'd
    Nor shall you do my ear that violence
    Nor the dejected havior of the visage,
    Nor what he spake, though it lack'd form a little,
    Nor windy suspiration of forc'd breath,
    Not of that dye which their investments show,
    Now I am alone.
    Now follows, that you know, young Fortinbras,
    Now for ourself and for this time of meeting.
    Now see that noble and most sovereign reason,
    Now wears his crown.
    O Hamlet, what a falling-off was there,
    O heart, lose not thy nature; let not ever
    O heavy burthen!
    O limed soul, that, struggling to be free,
    O most pernicious woman!
    O shame! where is thy blush? Rebellious hell,
    O villain, villain, smiling, damned villain!
    O what a rogue and peasant slave am I!
    O wicked wit and gifts, that have the power
    O wretched state! O bosom black as death!
    O'er which his melancholy sits on brood;
    O'ermaster't as you may. And now, good friends,
    O, my offence is rank, it smells to heaven;
    O, say!
    O, speak!
    O, step between her and her fighting soul
    O, the recorders! Let me see one. To withdraw with you- why do
    O, vengeance!
    Observe my uncle. If his occulted guilt
    Occasion smiles upon a second leave.
    Of Hamlet's transformation. So I call it,
    Of Hamlet's wildness. So shall I hope your virtues
    Of all their conference. If she find him not,
    Of each new-hatch'd, unfledg'd comrade. Beware
    Of entrance to a quarrel; but being in,
    Of general assault.
    Of his affection to me.
    Of his behaviour.
    Of his true state.
    Of impious stubbornness. 'Tis unmanly grief;
    Of life, of crown, of queen, at once dispatch'd;
    Of man and country-
    Of mine own eyes.
    Of these dilated articles allow.            [Gives a paper.]
    Of this his nephew's purpose, to suppress
    Of this post-haste and romage in the land.
    Of those effects for which I did the murther-
    Of unimproved mettle hot and full,
    Of your precedent lord; a vice of kings;
    Offence's gilded hand may shove by justice,
    Oft breaking down the pales and forts of reason,
    On Fortinbras; which he, in brief, obeys,
    On Fortune's cap we are not the very button.
    On such regards of safety and allowance
    One scene of it comes near the circumstance,
    Or 'If we list to speak,' or 'There be, an if they might,'
    Or (not to crack the wind of the poor phrase,
    Or but a sickly part of one true sense
    Or by pronouncing of some doubtful phrase,
    Or by some habit that too much o'erleavens
    Or ever I had seen that day, Horatio!
    Or given my heart a winking, mute and dumb,
    Or if thou hast uphoarded in thy life
    Or in th' incestuous pleasure of his bed;
    Or look'd upon this love with idle sight?
    Or lose your heart, or your chaste treasure open
    Or my dear Majesty your queen here, think,
    Or pardon'd being down? Then I'll look up;
    Or rather say, the cause of this defect,
    Or such ambiguous giving out, to note
    Or that the Everlasting had not fix'd
    Or then, or then, with such or such; and, as you say,
    Or thinking by our late dear brother's death
    Or to take arms against a sea of troubles,
    Or to the dreadful summit of the cliff
    Our chiefest courtier, cousin, and our son.
    Our hasty sending. Something have you heard
    Our state to be disjoint and out of frame,
    Out of his lunacies.
    Out of his subject; and we here dispatch
    Out of my weakness and my melancholy,
    Out of the shot and danger of desire.
    Over the nasty sty!
    Pale as his shirt, his knees knocking each other,
    Passing through nature to eternity.
    Perchance 'twill walk again.
    Perpend.
    Plautus too light. For the law of writ and the liberty, these are
    Play something like the murther of my father
    Pleasant and helpful to him!
    Plucks off my beard and blows it in my face?
    Possess it merely. That it should come to this!
    Pray you be round with him.
    Pro. For us, and for our tragedy,
    Prompted to my revenge by heaven and hell,
    Put your dread pleasures more into command
    Queen. Nor earth to me give food, nor heaven light,
    Queen. O, confound the rest!
    Queen. Sleep rock thy brain,
    Queen. So many journeys may the sun and moon
    Queen. The instances that second marriage move
    Rankly abus'd. But know, thou noble youth,
    Receiv'd his love?
    Receives rebuke from Norway, and, in fine,
    Remorseless, treacherous, lecherous, kindless villain!
    Resembles that it was. What it should be,
    Respeaking earthly thunder. Come away.
    Revisits thus the glimpses of the moon,
    Rich gifts wax poor when givers prove unkind.
    Rome-
    Rosencrantz! Good lads, how do ye both?
    Running it thus) you'll tender me a fool.
    Save me and hover o'er me with your wings,
    Say, Voltemand, what from our brother Norway?
    Say, why is this? wherefore? What should we do?
    See what a grace was seated on this brow;
    See you now-
    Seek for thy noble father in the dust.
    Seem to me all the uses of this world!
    Set your entreatments at a higher rate
    Shall in the general censure take corruption
    Shall you my son. You have me, have you not
    Shark'd up a list of lawless resolutes,
    She married. O, most wicked speed, to post
    Show me the steep and thorny way to heaven,
    Since frost itself as actively doth burn,
    Since my dear soul was mistress of her choice
    Since nature cannot choose his origin,-
    Since nature makes them partial, should o'erhear
    Sith nor th' exterior nor the inward man
    Sits smiling to my heart; in grace whereof,
    So by his father lost; and this, I take it,
    So excellent a king, that was to this
    So frown'd he once when, in an angry parle,
    So grace and mercy at your most need help you,
    So hallow'd and so gracious is the time.
    So horridly to shake our disposition
    So levied as before, against the Polack;
    So lust, though to a radiant angel link'd,
    So much as from occasion you may glean,
    So much from th' understanding of himself,
    So nightly toils the subject of the land,
    So oft it chances in particular men
    So to seduce!- won to his shameful lust
    So, by my former lecture and advice,
    So, proceed you.
    So, uncle, there you are. Now to my word:
    Soil our addition; and indeed it takes
    Some little time; so by your companies
    Some say that ever, 'gainst that season comes
    Sound a flourish. [Enter Trumpets and Kettledrums. Danish
    Speak of it! Stay, and speak!- Stop it, Marcellus!
    Speak to her, Hamlet.
    Speak to me.
    Speak to me.
    Sprung from neglected love.- How now, Ophelia?
    Stand dumb and speak not to him. This to me
    Stew'd in corruption, honeying and making love
    Still am I call'd. Unhand me, gentlemen.
    Such as it is; and for my own poor part,
    Such was the very armour he had on
    Swear by my sword.
    Swear by my sword.
    Swear.
    T' assume a pleasing shape; yea, and perhaps
    T' have seen what I have seen, see what I see!
    Taint not thy mind, nor let thy soul contrive
    Take each man's censure, but reserve thy judgment.
    Take it to heart? Fie! 'tis a fault to heaven,
    Take these again; for to the noble mind
    Take you, as 'twere, some distant knowledge of him;
    Taken to wife; nor have we herein barr'd
    Tears in his eyes, distraction in's aspect,
    Tell him his pranks have been too broad to bear with,
    Termagant. It out-herods Herod. Pray you avoid it.
    Th' expectancy and rose of the fair state,
    Th' extravagant and erring spirit hies
    Th' imperial jointress to this warlike state,
    Th' important acting of your dread command?
    Th' observ'd of all observers- quite, quite down!
    Th' oppressor's wrong, the proud man's contumely,
    Than I to Hercules. Within a month,
    Than a command to parley. For Lord Hamlet,
    Than are dreamt of in your philosophy.
    Than fly to others that we know not of?
    Than is my deed to my most painted word.
    Than is the throne of Denmark to thy father.
    Than may be given you. In few, Ophelia,
    Than that which dearest father bears his son
    Than the main voice of Denmark goes withal.
    Than to entreaty.
    Than your particular demands will touch it.
    That I have Positively said ''Tis so,'
    That I have longed long to re-deliver.
    That I have? He would drown the stage with tears
    That I will speak to thee. I'll call thee Hamlet,
    That I, the son of a dear father murther'd,
    That are so fortified against our story,
    That beetles o'er his base into the sea,
    That blurs the grace and blush of modesty;
    That cannot be; since I am still possess'd
    That does afflict our natures. I am sorry.
    That ever I was born to set it right!
    That father lost, lost his, and the survivor bound
    That flesh is heir to. 'Tis a consummation
    That from a shelf the precious diadem stole
    That great baby you see there is not yet out of his swaddling
    That grows to seed; things rank and gross in nature
    That guilty creatures, sitting at a play,
    That has no relish of salvation in't-
    That hath a stomach in't; which is no other,
    That he is mad, 'tis true: 'tis true 'tis pity;
    That he is open to incontinency.
    That he might not beteem the winds of heaven
    That he should weep for her? What would he do,
    That he, as 'twere by accident, may here
    That is not passion's slave, and I will wear him
    That it is proof and bulwark against sense.
    That it might please you to give quiet pass
    That it went hand in hand even with the vow
    That live and feed upon your Majesty.
    That looks so many fadoms to the sea
    That makes calamity of so long life.
    That may to thee do ease, and, race to me,
    That no revenue hast but thy good spirits
    That one may smile, and smile, and be a villain;
    That patient merit of th' unworthy takes,
    That roars so loud and thunders in the index?
    That rots itself in ease on Lethe wharf,
    That shall not be my offer, not thy asking?
    That she should lock herself from his resort,
    That show of such an exercise may colour
    That so his sickness, age, and impotence
    That spirit upon whose weal depends and rests
    That suck'd the honey of his music vows,
    That swift as quicksilverr it courses through
    That they are not a pipe for Fortune's finger
    That they do know my son, come you more nearer
    That they may seem the taints of liberty,
    That thou, dead corse, again in complete steel,
    That thus hath cozen'd you at hoodman-blind?
    That thus he suffers for.
    That unmatch'd form and feature of blown youth
    That was and is the question of these wars.
    That we find out the cause of this effect-
    That we with wisest sorrow think on him
    That you do bend your eye on vacancy,
    That you have ta'en these tenders for true pay,
    That you know aught of me- this is not to do,
    That you vouchsafe your rest here in our court
    That you, at such times seeing me, never shall,
    That your good beauties be the happy cause
    That youth and observation copied there,
    That's an ill phrase, a vile phrase; 'beautified' is a vile
    That's not my meaning. But breathe his faults so quaintly
    That, being of so young clays brought up with him,
    That, for some vicious mole of nature in them,
    That, from her working, all his visage wann'd,
    That, if again this apparition come,
    That, laps'd in time and passion, lets go by
    That, open'd, lies within our remedy.
    Thaw, and resolve itself into a dew!
    The Devil himself.
    The apparition comes. I knew your father.
    The bell then beating one-
    The better to beguile. This is for all:
    The bird of dawning singeth all night long;
    The canker galls the infants of the spring
    The chariest maid is prodigal enough
    The cock, that is the trumpet to the morn,
    The counterfeit presentment of two brothers.
    The courtier's, scholar's, soldier's, eye, tongue, sword,
    The fair Ophelia!- Nymph, in thy orisons
    The first row of the pious chanson will show you more; for look
    The flash and outbreak of a fiery mind,
    The form of plausive manners, that these men
    The glass of fashion and the mould of form,
    The glowworm shows the matin to be near
    The graves stood tenantless, and the sheeted dead
    The hand more instrumental to the mouth,
    The harlot's cheek, beautied with plast'ring art,
    The head and source of all your son's distemper.
    The head is not more native to the heart,
    The heartache, and the thousand natural shocks
    The heyday in the blood is tame, it's humble,
    The insolence of office, and the spurns
    The inward service of the mind and soul
    The kettledrum and trumpet thus bray out
    The leperous distilment; whose effect
    The lists, and full proportions are all made
    The lives of many. The cesse of majesty
    The memory be green, and that it us befitted
    The natural gates and alleys of the body,
    The need we have to use you did provoke
    The nights are wholesome, then no planets strike,
    The origin and commencement of his grief
    The pangs of despis'd love, the law's delay,
    The perfume and suppliance of a minute;
    The pith and marrow of our attribute.
    The rivals of my watch, bid them make haste.
    The safety and health of this whole state,
    The serpent that did sting thy father's life
    The slings and arrows of outrageous fortune
    The soul of Nero enter this firm bosom.
    The source of this our watch, and the chief head
    The speech, of vantage. Fare you well, my liege.
    The story is extant, and written in very choice Italian. You
    The terms of our estate may not endure
    The thin and wholesome blood. So did it mine;
    The time is out of joint. O cursed spite
    The triumph of his pledge.
    The undiscover'd country, from whose bourn
    The very cause of Hamlet's lunacy.
    The very faculties of eyes and ears.
    The very place puts toys of desperation,
    The very soul, and sweet religion makes
    The virtue of his will; but you must fear,
    The will of my most seeming-virtuous queen.
    The wind sits in the shoulder of your sail,
    The youth you breathe of guilty, be assur'd
    Their virtues else- be they as pure as grace,
    Then goes he to the length of all his arm,
    Then trip him, that his heels may kick at heaven,
    Then weigh what loss your honour may sustain
    Thence to a lightness, and, by this declension,
    Thence to a watch, thence into a weakness,
    There are more things in heaven and earth, Horatio,
    There falling out at tennis'; or perchance,
    There is a play to-night before the King.
    There is no shuffling; there the action lies
    There was 'a gaming; there o'ertook in's rouse;
    There, my lord.
    Therefore I have entreated him along,
    Therefore our sometime sister, now our queen,
    Therefore, since brevity is the soul of wit,
    Thereto prick'd on by a most emulate pride,
    These but the trappings and the suits of woe.
    These hands are not more like.
    These words like daggers enter in mine ears.
    They clip us drunkards and with swinish phrase
    They have proclaim'd their malefactions;
    This above all- to thine own self be true,
    This bodes some strange eruption to our state.
    This gentle and unforc'd accord of Hamlet
    This heavy-headed revel east and west
    This is one Lucianus, nephew to the King.
    This is the very ecstasy of love,
    This marvel to you.
    This must be known; which, being kept close, might move
    This must not be.' And then I prescripts gave her,
    This night to play before him.
    This physic but prolongs thy sickly days.              Exit.
    This present object made probation.
    This something-settled matter in his heart,
    This spirit, dumb to us, will speak to him.
    This unprevailing woe, and think of us
    This was your husband. Look you now what follows.
    This, in obedience, hath my daughter shown me;
    Those friends thou hast, and their adoption tried,
    Thou canst not then be false to any man.
    Thou com'st in such a questionable shape
    Thou find'st to be too busy is some danger.
    Thou know'st 'tis common. All that lives must die,
    Thou turn'st mine eyes into my very soul,
    Thou wretched, rash, intruding fool, farewell!
    Though all the earth o'erwhelm them, to men's eyes.
    Though inclination be as sharp as will.
    Though lewdness court it in a shape of heaven,
    Through your dominions for this enterprise,
    Thus conscience does make cowards of us all,
    Thus it remains, and the remainder thus.
    Thus much the business is: we have here writ
    Thus set it down: he shall with speed to England
    Thus was I, sleeping, by a brother's hand
    Thy knotted and combined locks to part,
    Till the foul crimes done in my days of nature
    Till then sit still, my soul. Foul deeds will rise,
    To England send him; or confine him where
    To Norway, uncle of young Fortinbras,
    To any pastime?
    To be a preparation 'gainst the Polack,
    To be commanded.
    To be contracted in one brow of woe,
    To be forestalled ere we come to fall,
    To bear our hearts in grief, and our whole kingdom
    To both your honours.
    To business with the King, more than the scope
    To cast beyond ourselves in our opinions
    To cast thee up again. What may this mean
    To do obsequious sorrow. But to persever
    To draw him on to pleasures, and to gather
    To ears of flesh and blood. List, list, O, list!
    To feed and clothe thee? Why should the poor be flatter'd?
    To flaming youth let virtue be as wax
    To give in evidence. What then? What rests?
    To give th' assay of arms against your Majesty.
    To give the world assurance of a man.
    To give them seals never, my soul, consent!             Exit.
    To give these mourning duties to your father;
    To grunt and sweat under a weary life,
    To hear and see the matter.
    To hear him so inclin'd.
    To hear of it. They are here about the court,
    To hear the process. I'll warrant she'll tax him home;
    To heaven.
    To his confine; and of the truth herein
    To his unmast'red importunity.
    To keep itself from noyance; but much more
    To keep those many many bodies safe
    To lack discretion. Come, go we to the King.
    To lay our service freely at your feet,
    To let his madness range. Therefore prepare you;
    To let you know of it.
    To make it truster of your own report
    To make oppression bitter, or ere this
    To offer it the show of violence;
    To our most valiant brother. So much for him.
    To prick and sting her. Fare thee well at once.
    To put an antic disposition on),
    To reason most absurd, whose common theme
    To serve in such a difference. What devil was't
    To show his grief. Let her be round with him;
    To show my duty in your coronation,
    To show us so much gentry and good will
    To sleep- perchance to dream: ay, there's the rub!
    To sound what stop she please. Give me that man
    To speak of horrors- he comes before me.
    To take him in the purging of his soul,
    To tell the secrets of my prison house,
    To tell us this.
    To the inheritance of Fortinbras,
    To those of mine!
    To wash it white as snow? Whereto serves mercy
    To what I shall unfold.
    To whom he more adheres. If it will please you
    To whose huge spokes ten thousand lesser things
    To you alone.
    To youth and liberty.
    Together with all forms, moods, shapes of grief,
    Together with remembrance of ourselves.
    Together with that fair and warlike form
    Too oft before their buttons be disclos'd,
    Touching this dreaded sight, twice seen of us.
    Try what repentance can. What can it not?
    Tweaks me by th' nose? gives me the lie i' th' throat
    Ungart'red, and down-gyved to his ankle;
    Unhous'led, disappointed, unanel'd,
    Unmix'd with baser matter. Yes, by heaven!
    Unsifted in such perilous circumstance.
    Unto our climature and countrymen.
    Unto the voice and yielding of that body
    Unto young Hamlet; for, upon my life,
    Up, sword, and know thou a more horrid hent.
    Upon a fearful summons. I have heard
    Upon a wretch whose natural gifts were poor
    Upon his will I seal'd my hard consent.
    Upon my secure hour thy uncle stole,
    Upon our first, he sent out to suppress
    Upon the platform, 'twixt eleven and twelve,
    Upon the witness of these gentlemen,
    Upon whose influence Neptune's empire stands
    Upon whose property and most dear life
    Videlicet, a brothel, or so forth.
    Virtue itself scopes not calumnious strokes.
    Visit her face too roughly. Heaven and earth!
    Walks o'er the dew of yon high eastward hill.
    Was falsely borne in hand, sends out arrests
    Was gaged by our king; which had return'd
    Was not like madness. There's something in his soul
    Was sick almost to doomsday with eclipse.
    Was, as you know, by Fortinbras of Norway,
    We do it wrong, being so majestical,
    We heard it all.- My lord, do as you please;
    We may of their encounter frankly judge
    We o'erraught on the way. Of these we told him,
    We will bestow ourselves.- [To Ophelia] Read on this book,
    We'll teach you to drink deep ere you depart.
    Welcome, my good friends.
    Well may it sort that this portentous figure
    Well ratified by law and heraldry,
    Were nothing but to waste night, day, and time.
    Were thicker than itself with brother's blood,
    What I have said to you.
    What company, at what expense; and finding
    What does this mean, my lord?
    What forgeries you please; marry, none so rank
    What is between you? Give me up the truth.
    What is't but to be nothing else but mad?
    What majesty should be, what duty is,
    What might be toward, that this sweaty haste
    What might you think? No, I went round to work
    What think you on't?
    What we two nights have seen.
    What wouldst thou have, Laertes?
    What's Hecuba to him, or he to Hecuba,
    What's near it with it. It is a massy wheel,
    What, have you given him any hard words of late?
    What, is Horatio there ?
    When I had seen this hot love on the wing
    When I to sulph'rous and tormenting flames
    When churchyards yawn, and hell itself breathes out
    When he himself might his quietus make
    When he is drunk asleep; or in his rage;
    When he is fit and seasoned for his passage?
    When he th' ambitious Norway combated.
    When it prov'd otherwise.?
    When the blood burns, how prodigal the soul
    When the compulsive ardour gives the charge,
    When we have shuffled off this mortal coil,
    When we would bring him on to some confession
    When yond same star that's westward from the pole
    Where every god did seem to set his seal
    Where now it burns, Marcellus and myself,
    Where thrift may follow fawning. Dost thou hear?
    Where truth is hid, though it were hid indeed
    Where we shall find him most conveniently.           Exeunt.
    Where you may see the inmost part of you.
    Where, as they had deliver'd, both in time,
    Wherein I'll catch the conscience of the King.         Exit.
    Wherein our Saviour's birth is celebrated,
    Wherein the spirit held his wont to walk.
    Wherein we saw thee quietly inurn'd,
    Whereof he is the head. Then if he says he loves you,
    Whereon his brains still beating puts him thus
    Whereon old Norway, overcome with joy,
    Whether 'tis nobler in the mind to suffer
    Whether aught to us unknown afflicts him thus
    Whether in sea or fire, in earth or air,
    Which I have told thee, of my father's death.
    Which are not sterling. Tender yourself more dearly,
    Which done, she took the fruits of my advice,
    Which happily foreknowing may avoid,
    Which he stood seiz'd of, to the conqueror;
    Which might deprive your sovereignty of reason
    Which now goes too free-footed.
    Whiles, like a puff'd and reckless libertine,
    Who calls me villain? breaks my pate across?
    Who hath reliev'd you?
    Who in her duty and obedience, mark,
    Who is't that can inform me?
    Who, impotent and bedrid, scarcely hears
    Whose blood and judgment are so well commingled
    Whose image even but now appear'd to us,
    Whose violent property fordoes itself
    Why day is day, night is night, and time is time.
    Why seems it so particular with thee?
    Why should we in our peevish opposition
    Why such impress of shipwrights, whose sore task
    Why this same strict and most observant watch
    Why thy canoniz'd bones, hearsed in death,
    Why, this is hire and salary, not revenge!
    Why, what an ass am I! This is most brave,
    Will be some danger; which for to prevent,
    Will bring him to his wonted way again,
    Will sate itself in a celestial bed
    Will so bestow ourselves that, seeing unseen,
    With a bare bodkin? Who would these fardels bear,
    With all his crimes broad blown, as flush as May;
    With all my imperfections on my head.
    With all my love I do commend me to you;
    With all the strength and armour of the mind
    With almost all the holy vows of heaven.
    With an attent ear, till I may deliver
    With an auspicious, and a dropping eye,
    With an entreaty, herein further shown,
    With arms encumb'red thus, or this head-shake,
    With forms to his conceit? And all for nothing!
    With juice of cursed hebona in a vial,
    With martial stalk hath he gone by our watch.
    With mirth in funeral, and with dirge in marriage,
    With most miraculous organ, I'll have these Players
    With such dexterity to incestuous sheets!
    With this affair along. For all, our thanks.
    With this regard their currents turn awry
    With this slave's offal. Bloody bawdy villain!
    With thoughts beyond the reaches of our souls?
    With tristful visage, as against the doom,
    With turbulent and dangerous lunacy?
    With us to watch the minutes of this night,
    With variable objects, shall expel
    With which she followed my poor father's body
    With windlasses and with assays of bias,
    With witchcraft of his wit, with traitorous gifts-
    Within his truncheon's length; whilst they distill'd
    Within the book and volume of my brain,
    Within the centre.
    Without more motive, into every brain
    Without the sensible and true avouch
    Words without thoughts never to heaven go.             Exit.
    Would I had met my dearest foe in heaven
    Would harrow up thy soul, freeze thy young blood,
    Would have mourn'd longer) married with my uncle;
    Would not this, sir, and a forest of feathers- if the rest of my
    Would quake to look on. Soft! now to my mother!
    Would step from this to this? Sense sure you have,
    Wouldst thou not stir in this. Now, Hamlet, hear.
    Yea, from the table of my memory
    Yea, this solidity and compound mass,
    Yes, faith, heartily.
    Yet I,
    Yet now I must confess, that duty done,
    Yet so far hath discretion fought with nature
    Yet what can it when one cannot repent?
    You are the Queen, your husband's brother's wife,
    You are the most immediate to our throne,
    You are welcome, masters; welcome, all.- I am glad to see thee
    You cannot call it love; for at your age
    You cannot speak of reason to the Dane
    You do not understand yourself so clearly
    You go not till I set you up a glass
    You heavenly guards! What would your gracious figure?
    You laying these slight sullies on my son
    You must not put another scandal on him,
    You must not take for fire. From this time
    You need not tell us what Lord Hamlet said.
    You told us of some suit. What is't, Laertes?
    You, as your business and desires shall point you,
    You, good Cornelius, and you, Voltemand,
    Your bait of falsehood takes this carp of truth;
    Your better wisdoms, which have freely gone
    Your leave and favour to return to France;
    Your loneliness.- We are oft to blame in this,
    Your party in converse, him you would sound,
    Your visitation shall receive such thanks
    Your wisdom best shall think.
    Youth to itself rebels, though none else near.
    action how like an angel! in apprehension how like a god! the
    affectation; but call'd it an honest method, as wholesome as
    against their own succession.
    air, look you, this brave o'erhanging firmament, this majestical
    all welcome. We'll e'en to't like French falconers, fly at
    altitude of a chopine. Pray God your voice, like a piece of
    amazement and admiration.
    amble, and you lisp; you nickname God's creatures and make your
    and aunt-mother are deceiv'd.
    and shows a most pitiful ambition in the fool that uses it. Go
    and sure, dear friends, my thanks are too dear a halfpenny. Were
    answer is I can make, you shall command; or rather, as you say,
    anything we see. We'll have a speech straight. Come, give us a
    appurtenance of welcome is fashion and ceremony. Let me comply
    are no better), their writers do them wrong to make them exclaim
    are unwrung.
    as your daughter may conceive. Friend, look to't.
    bad epitaph than their ill report while you live.
    bar the door upon your own liberty, if you deny your griefs to
    be thou as chaste as ice, as pure as snow, thou shalt not escape
    beauty of the world, the paragon of animals! And yet to me what
    beck than I have thoughts to put them in, imagination to give
    believe none of us. Go thy ways to a nunnery. Where's your
    bellow for revenge.
    better proposer could charge you withal, be even and direct with
    but now the time gives it proof. I did love you once.
    calumny. Get thee to a nunnery. Go, farewell. Or if thou wilt
    carried away. The Poisoner wooes the Queen with gifts; she
    chronicles of the time. After your death you were better have a
    city? Are they so follow'd?
    clouts.
    comes in again, seem to condole with her. The dead body is
    crown, kisses it, pours poison in the sleeper's ears, and
    dare scarce come thither.
    desert, and who should scape whipping? Use them after your own
    deserved at the hands of Fortune that she sends you to prison
    discourse most eloquent music. Look you, these are the stops.
    discourse to your beauty.
    discovery, and your secrecy to the King and Queen moult no
    do, crawling between earth and heaven? We are arrant knaves all;
    dreadfully attended. But in the beaten way of friendship, what
    dungeons, Denmark being one o' th' worst.
    end his part in peace; the clown shall make those laugh whose
    entertainment than yours. You are welcome. But my uncle-father
    entertainment the players shall receive from you. We coted them
    epitaph is 'For O, for O, the hobby-horse is forgot!'
    escoted? Will they pursue the quality no longer than they can
    especially where he speaks of Priam's slaughter. If it live in
    excellent voice, in this little organ, yet cannot you make it
    eyes. Prithee no more!
    faculties! in form and moving how express and admirable! in
    father?
    favours?
    fay, I cannot reason.
    feather. I have of late- but wherefore I know not- lost all my
    fingers and thumbs, give it breath with your mouth, and it will
    for love- very near this. I'll speak to him again.- What do you
    for your succession in Denmark?
    form and pressure. Now this overdone, or come tardy off, though
    fortunes turn Turk with me-with two Provincial roses on my raz'd
    freely, or the blank verse shall halt fort. What players are
    further trade with us?
    gentleman.'
    gently; for in the very torrent, tempest, and (as I may say)
    given you one face, and you make yourselves another. You jig, you
    gone, far gone! And truly in my youth I suff'red much extremity
    grieve; the censure of the which one must in your allowance
    half a year. But, by'r Lady, he must build churches then; or else
    hath sent me to you.
    have grey beards; that their faces are wrinkled; their eyes
    have not craft enough to colour. I know the good King and Queen
    have not the skill.
    have seen play, and heard others praise, and that highly (not to
    have sent for you.
    have tribute of me; the adventurous knight shall use his foil and
    he knew me not at first. He said I was a fishmonger. He is far
    hear? Let them be well us'd; for they are the abstract and brief
    heavily with my disposition that this goodly frame, the earth,
    help to hasten them?
    heroes the beggars' shadows. Shall we to th' court? for, by my
    him and he her. She kneels, and makes show of protestation
    him and my daughter.- My honourable lord, I will most humbly take
    him asleep, leaves him. Anon comes in a fellow, takes off his
    his love.
    his replies are! a happiness that often madness hits on, which
    his wife, Baptista. You shall see anon. 'Tis a knavish piece of
    history, pastoral, pastoral-comical, historical-pastoral,
    hither?
    holds it no sin to tarre them to controversy. There was, for a
    honesty from what it is to a bawd than the force of honesty can
    honour and dignity. The less they deserve, the more merit is in
    humanity so abominably.
    i' th' university, you say?
    image of a murther done in Vienna. Gonzago is the duke's name;
    individable, or poem unlimited. Seneca cannot be too heavy, nor
    innovation.
    inoculate our old stock but we shall relish of it. I loved you
    insert in't, could you not?
    into a toil?
    is this quintessence of dust? Man delights not me- no, nor woman
    it is but a shadow's shadow.
    it make the unskilful laugh, cannot but make the judicious
    it. Adieu.
    journeymen had made men, and not made them well, they imitated
    kill'd me.
    king of infinite space, were it not that I have bad dreams.
    kissing carrion- Have you a daughter?
    know a hawk from a handsaw.
    ladyship is nearer to heaven than when I saw you last by the
    leaves him. The Queen returns, finds the King dead, and makes
    life,
    little. 'Sblood, there is something in this more than natural, if
    love passing well.
    lowest note to the top of my compass; and there is much music,
    lungs are tickle o' th' sere; and the lady shall say her mind
    make you at Elsinore?
    make you ready.
    man is twice a child.
    march. [Enter King, Queen, Polonius, Ophelia, Rosencrantz,
    married already- all but one- shall live; the rest shall keep as
    me mad. I say, we will have no moe marriages. Those that are
    me of such things that it were better my mother had not borne me.
    me, whether you were sent for or no.
    mind.
    mine.
    mirth, forgone all custom of exercises; and indeed, it goes so
    monsters you make of them. To a nunnery, go; and quickly too.
    musty.
    my leave of you.
    my mother. Therefore no more, but to the matter! My mother, you
    nature: for anything so overdone is from the purpose of playing,
    neck. He lays him down upon a bank of flowers. She, seeing
    needs marry, marry a fool; for wise men know well enough what
    neither, though by your smiling you seem to say so.
    nor no matter in the phrase that might indict the author of
    not honesty to have it thus set down; for you yourself, sir,
    not off.
    not saw the air too much with your hand, thus, but use all
    not so wildly from my affair.
    not the million, 'twas caviary to the general; but it was (as I
    not.
    nowhere but in's own house. Farewell.
    o'erweigh a whole theatre of others. O, there be players that I
    obligation of our ever-preserved love, and by what more dear a
    of our fellowship, by the consonancy of our youth, by the
    of question and are most tyrannically clapp'd fort. These are now
    on the way, and hither are they coming to offer you service.
    or bad but thinking makes it so. To me it is a prison.
    or if it was, not above once; for the play, I remember, pleas'd
    passionate action. The Poisoner with some three or four Mutes,
    philosophy could find it out.
    pick'd out of ten thousand.
    piece of work is a man! how noble in reason! how infinite in
    pipe? Call me what instrument you will, though you can fret me,
    players do, I had as live the town crier spoke my lines. Nor do
    plentiful lack of wit, together with most weak hams. All which,
    pluck out the heart of my mystery; you would sound me from my
    plunge him into far more choler.
    pound! Didst perceive?
    promise-cramm'd. You cannot feed capons so.
    purging thick amber and plum-tree gum; and that they have a
    question more in particular. What have you, my good friends,
    question of the play be then to be considered. That's villanous
    read, my lord?
    reason and sanity could not so prosperously be delivered of. I
    receiv'd it, and others, whose judgments in such matters cried in
    reckon my groans; but that I love thee best, O most best, believe
    reputation and profit, was better both ways.
    roof fretted with golden fire- why, it appeareth no other thing
    say-
    scorn her own image, and the very age and body of the time his
    seems harsh and unwilling awhile, but in the end accepts
    seems to me a sterile promontory; this most excellent canopy, the
    sequel at the heels of this mother's admiration? Impart.
    servants; for, to speak to you like an honest man, I am most
    set down with as much modesty as cunning. I remember one said
    shall be the end of my business.
    shall he suffer not thinking on, with the hobby-horse, whose
    shall see anon how the murtherer gets the love of Gonzago's wife.
    shoes, get me a fellowship in a cry of players, sir?
    should be old as I am if, like a crab, you could go backward.
    show, he'll not shame to tell you what it means.
    shows and noise. I would have such a fellow whipp'd for o'erdoing
    sing? Will they not say afterwards, if they should grow
    sinners? I am myself indifferent honest, but yet I could accuse
    sir, an eyrie of children, little eyases, that cry out on the top
    sir, though I most powerfully and potently believe, yet I hold it
    soul to hear a robustious periwig-pated fellow tear a passion to
    souls, it touches us not. Let the gall'd jade winch; our withers
    speak it profanely), that, neither having the accent of
    speak no more than is set down for them. For there be of them
    speak. 'Sblood, do you think I am easier to be play'd on than a
    spectators to laugh too, though in the mean time some necessary
    speech of some dozen or sixteen lines which I would set down and
    strumpet. What news ?
    strutted and bellowed that I have thought some of Nature's
    suit of sables. O heavens! die two months ago, and not forgotten
    sweet, and by very much more handsome than fine. One speech in't
    target; the lover shall not sigh gratis; the humorous man shall
    taste of your quality. Come, a passionate speech.
    tatters, to very rags, to split the cars of the groundlings, who
    tell you must show fairly outwards) should more appear like
    temperance that may give it smoothness. O, it offends me to the
    that will themselves laugh, to set on some quantity of barren
    the ambitious is merely the shadow of a dream.
    the doctor; for me to put him to his purgation would perhaps
    the fashion, and so berattle the common stages (so they call
    the only men.
    the players ready.
    the puppets dallying.
    the top of mine) an excellent play, well digested in the scenes,
    them shape, or time to act them in. What should such fellows as I
    them) that many wearing rapiers are afraid of goosequills and
    themselves to common players (as it is most like, if their means
    there is a kind of confession in your looks, which your modesties
    there were no sallets in the lines to make the matter savoury,
    they are. To a nunnery, go.                            Exit.
    they'll tell all.
    they?
    this special observance, that you o'erstep not the modesty of
    those that would make mows at him while my father lived give
    thy damnable faces, and begin! Come, the croaking raven doth
    to me than a foul and pestilent congregation of vapours. What a
    top of my bent.- I will come by-and-by.
    tragedians of the city.
    tragical-historical, tragical-comical-historical-pastoral; scene
    translate beauty into his likeness. This was sometime a paradox,
    trippingly on the tongue. But if you mouth it, as many of our
    tutor. Suit the action to the word, the word to the action; with
    twenty, forty, fifty, a hundred ducats apiece for his picture in
    uncurrent gold, be not crack'd within the ring.- Masters, you are
    unto him. He takes her up, and declines his head upon her
    valanc'd since I saw thee last. Com'st' thou to' beard me in
    visitation? Come, deal justly with me. Come, come! Nay, speak.
    wantonness your ignorance. Go to, I'll no more on't! it hath made
    well.- Welcome, good friends.- O, my old friend? Why, thy face is
    went to cuffs in the question.
    where my abridgment comes.
    while, no money bid for argument unless the poet and the player
    whirlwind of your passion, you must acquire and beget a
    whose end, both at the first and now, was and is, to hold, as
    will leave him and suddenly contrive the means of meeting between
    willingly part withal- except my life, except my life, except my
    with you in this garb, lest my extent to the players (which I
    within 's two hours.
    work; but what o' that? Your Majesty, and we that have free
    world.
    would play upon me; you would seem to know my stops; you would
    yet? Then there's hope a great man's memory may outlive his life
    you cannot play upon me.
    you go about to recover the wind of me, as if you would drive me
    you not sent for? Is it your own inclining? Is it a free
    your bounty. Take them in.
    your friend.
    your memory, begin at this line- let me see, let me see:
    your mother's commandment; if not, your pardon and my return
   Will You walk out of the air, my lord?
   You say right, sir; a Monday morning; twas so indeed.
  1. Play. 'Anon he finds him,
  1. Play. 'But who, O who, had seen the mobled queen-'
  1. Play. 'Run barefoot up and down, threat'ning the flames
  1. Play. Ay, my lord.
  1. Play. Ay, my lord.
  1. Play. What speech, my good lord?
  A Gentleman, courtier.
  A Norwegian Captain.
  A Priest.
  All. Lights, lights, lights!
  All. Our duty to your honour.
  Ber. 'Tis here!
  Ber. 'Tis now struck twelve. Get thee to bed, Francisco.
  Ber. Have you had quiet guard?
  Ber. He.
  Ber. How now, Horatio? You tremble and look pale.
  Ber. I have seen nothing.
  Ber. I think it be no other but e'en so.
  Ber. In the same figure, like the King that's dead.
  Ber. It was about to speak, when the cock crew.
  Ber. It would be spoke to.
  Ber. Last night of all,
  Ber. Long live the King!
  Ber. Looks it not like the King? Mark it, Horatio.
  Ber. Say-
  Ber. See, it stalks away!
  Ber. Sit down awhile,
  Ber. Welcome, Horatio. Welcome, good Marcellus.
  Ber. Well, good night.
  Ber. Who's there.?
  Bernardo, officer.
  Both [Mar. and Ber.] We do, my lord.
  Both. Arm'd, my lord.
  Both. Ay, by heaven, my lord.
  Both. Longer, longer.
  Both. My lord, from head to foot.
  Both. My lord, we will not.
  Both. We will haste us.
  Both. We will, my lord.                       Exeunt they two.
  Both. We'll wait upon you.
  Claudius, King of Denmark.
  Cor., Volt. In that, and all things, will we show our duty.
  Cornelius, courtier.
  English Ambassadors.
  Fortinbras, Prince of Norway.
  Fran. Bernardo hath my place.
  Fran. Bernardo?
  Fran. For this relief much thanks. 'Tis bitter cold,
  Fran. Give you good night.
  Fran. I think I hear them. Stand, ho! Who is there?
  Fran. Nay, answer me. Stand and unfold yourself.
  Fran. Not a mouse stirring.
  Fran. You come most carefully upon your hour.
  Francisco, a soldier
  Getrude, Queen of Denmark, mother to Hamlet.
  Ghost of Hamlet's Father.
  Ghost. Ay, that incestuous, that adulterate beast,
  Ghost. Do not forget. This visitation
  Ghost. I am thy father's spirit,
  Ghost. I find thee apt;
  Ghost. If thou hast nature in thee, bear it not.
  Ghost. Mark me.
  Ghost. Murther most foul, as in the best it is;
  Ghost. My hour is almost come,
  Ghost. Pity me not, but lend thy serious hearing
  Ghost. Revenge his foul and most unnatural murther.
  Ghost. So art thou to revenge, when thou shalt hear.
  Ghost. Swear.
  Ghost. [beneath] Swear by his sword.
  Ghost. [beneath] Swear.
  Ghost. [beneath] Swear.
  Guil. Believe me, I cannot.
  Guil. But these cannot I command to any utt'rance of harmony. I
  Guil. But we both obey,
  Guil. But with much forcing of his disposition.
  Guil. Faith, her privates we.
  Guil. Good my lord, put your discourse into some frame, and start
  Guil. Good my lord, vouchsafe me a word with you.
  Guil. Happy in that we are not over-happy.
  Guil. Heavens make our presence and our practices
  Guil. I know, no touch of it, my lord.
  Guil. In what, my dear lord?
  Guil. Is in his retirement, marvellous distemper'd.
  Guil. My honour'd lord!
  Guil. My lord, I cannot.
  Guil. My lord, we were sent for.
  Guil. Nay, good my lord, this courtesy is not of the right breed.
  Guil. No, my lord; rather with choler.
  Guil. Nor do we find him forward to be sounded,
  Guil. O my lord, if my duty be too bold, my love is too unmannerly.
  Guil. O, there has been much throwing about of brains.
  Guil. Prison, my lord?
  Guil. The King, sir-
  Guil. The Queen, your mother, in most great affliction of spirit
  Guil. There are the players.
  Guil. We will ourselves provide.
  Guil. What should we say, my lord?
  Guil. What, my lord?
  Guil. Which dreams indeed are ambition; for the very substance of
  Guildenstern, courtier.
  Ham.   A whole one I!
  Ham.   Aha! Come, some music! Come, the recorders!
  Ham.   Why, let the strucken deer go weep,
  Ham. 'By-and-by' is easily said.- Leave me, friends.
  Ham. 'The Mousetrap.' Marry, how? Tropically. This play is the
  Ham. 'The mobled queen'?
  Ham. 'Tis very strange.
  Ham. 'Tis well. I'll have thee speak out the rest of this soon.-
  Ham. (within) Mother, mother, mother!
  Ham. A bloody deed- almost as bad, good mother,
  Ham. A dream itself is but a shadow.
  Ham. A goodly one; in which there are many confines, wards, and
  Ham. A king of shreds and patches!-
  Ham. A murtherer and a villain!
  Ham. Aha boy, say'st thou so? Art thou there, truepenny?
  Ham. Alas, poor ghost!
  Ham. Am I not i' th' right, old Jephthah?
  Ham. And do still, by these pickers and stealers!
  Ham. And fix'd his eyes upon you?
  Ham. And therefore as a stranger give it welcome.
  Ham. Angels and ministers of grace defend us!
  Ham. Are you fair?
  Ham. Arm'd, say you?
  Ham. As woman's love.
  Ham. Ay, lady, it was my word.
  Ham. Ay, madam, it is common.
  Ham. Ay, marry, is't;
  Ham. Ay, or any show that you'll show him. Be not you asham'd to
  Ham. Ay, sir, but 'while the grass grows'- the proverb is something
  Ham. Ay, sir, what of him?
  Ham. Ay, sir. To be honest, as this world goes, is to be one man
  Ham. Ay, so, God b' wi' ye!
  Ham. Ay, truly; for the power of beauty will sooner transform
  Ham. Be not too tame neither; but let your own discretion be your
  Ham. Beggar that I am, I am even poor in thanks; but I thank you;
  Ham. Between who?
  Ham. Bid the players make haste, [Exit Polonius.] Will you two
  Ham. But where was this?
  Ham. Buzz, buzz!
  Ham. Come, come, and sit you down. You shall not budge I
  Ham. Denmark's a prison.
  Ham. Did you not speak to it?
  Ham. Do the boys carry it away?
  Ham. Do they hold the same estimation they did when I was in the
  Ham. Do you not come your tardy son to chide,
  Ham. Do you see yonder cloud that's almost in shape of a camel?
  Ham. Do you think I meant country matters?
  Ham. Excellent well. You are a fishmonger.
  Ham. Excellent, i' faith; of the chameleon's dish. I eat the air,
  Ham. Follow him, friends. We'll hear a play to-morrow.
  Ham. For God's love let me hear!
  Ham. For if the sun breed maggots in a dead dog, being a god
  Ham. From top to toe?
  Ham. Gentlemen, you are welcome to Elsinore. Your hands, come! Th'
  Ham. Get thee to a nunnery! Why wouldst thou be a breeder of
  Ham. Go, go, you question with a wicked tongue.
  Ham. God's bodykins, man, much better! Use every man after his
  Ham. Ha, ha! Are you honest?
  Ham. Hark you, Guildenstern- and you too- at each ear a hearer!
  Ham. Haste me to know't, that I, with wings as swift
  Ham. He poisons him i' th' garden for's estate. His name's Gonzago.
  Ham. He that plays the king shall be welcome- his Majesty shall
  Ham. He was a man, take him for all in all.
  Ham. Hic et ubique? Then we'll shift our ground.
  Ham. Hillo, ho, ho, boy! Come, bird, come.
  Ham. His beard was grizzled- no?
  Ham. Hold off your hands!
  Ham. Horatio, thou art e'en as just a man
  Ham. How chances it they travel? Their residence, both in
  Ham. How comes it? Do they grow rusty?
  Ham. How is it with you, lady?
  Ham. How say you then? Would heart of man once think it?
  Ham. I am but mad north-north-west. When the wind is southerly I
  Ham. I am glad to see you well.
  Ham. I am sorry they offend you, heartily;
  Ham. I am tame, sir; pronounce.
  Ham. I am very glad to see you.- [To Bernardo] Good even, sir.-
  Ham. I could interpret between you and your love, if I could see
  Ham. I do beseech you.
  Ham. I do not well understand that. Will you play upon this pipe?
  Ham. I have heard of your paintings too, well enough. God hath
  Ham. I heard thee speak me a speech once, but it was never acted;
  Ham. I humbly thank you; well, well, well.
  Ham. I mean, my head upon your lap?
  Ham. I pray you.
  Ham. I prithee do not mock me, fellow student.
  Ham. I shall in all my best obey you, madam.
  Ham. I will prophesy he comes to tell me of the players. Mark it.-
  Ham. I will tell you why. So shall my anticipation prevent your
  Ham. I will watch to-night.
  Ham. I will.
  Ham. I would I had been there.
  Ham. I would not hear your enemy say so,
  Ham. If it assume my noble father's person,
  Ham. If she should break it now!
  Ham. If thou dost marry, I'll give thee this plague for thy dowry:
  Ham. In my mind's eye, Horatio.
  Ham. In the secret parts of Fortune? O! most true! she is a
  Ham. Indeed, indeed, sirs. But this troubles me.
  Ham. Indeed, upon my sword, indeed.
  Ham. Into my grave?
  Ham. Is this a prologue, or the posy of a ring?
  Ham. Is't possible?
  Ham. It is as easy as lying. Govern these ventages with your
  Ham. It is not very strange; for my uncle is King of Denmark, and
  Ham. It shall to the barber's, with your beard.- Prithee say on.
  Ham. It was a brute part of him to kill so capital a calf there. Be
  Ham. It waves me still.
  Ham. It will not speak. Then will I follow it.
  Ham. It would cost you a groaning to take off my edge.
  Ham. Lady, shall I lie in your lap?
  Ham. Let her not walk i' th' sun. Conception is a blessing, but not
  Ham. Let the doors be shut upon him, that he may play the fool
  Ham. Look here upon th's picture, and on this,
  Ham. Madam, how like you this play?
  Ham. Make you a wholesome answer; my wit's diseas'd. But, sir, such
  Ham. Marry, this is miching malhecho; it means mischief.
  Ham. Methinks it is like a weasel.
  Ham. Mother, you have my father much offended.
  Ham. Murther?
  Ham. My excellent good friends! How dost thou, Guildenstern? Ah,
  Ham. My fate cries out
  Ham. My lord, I have news to tell you. When Roscius was an actor in
  Ham. Nay, I know not. Is it the King?
  Ham. Nay, but swear't.
  Ham. Nay, but to live
  Ham. Nay, do not think I flatter;
  Ham. Nay, that follows not.
  Ham. Never make known what you have seen to-night.
  Ham. Never to speak of this that you have seen.
  Ham. No such matter! I will not sort you with the rest of my
  Ham. No, by the rood, not so!
  Ham. No, good mother. Here's metal more attractive.
  Ham. No, no! They do but jest, poison in jest; no offence i' th'
  Ham. No, nor mine now. [To Polonius] My lord, you play'd once
  Ham. No, not I!
  Ham. No, you will reveal it.
  Ham. Nor the soles of her shoe?
  Ham. Not so, my lord. I am too much i' th' sun.
  Ham. Nothing.
  Ham. Now might I do it pat, now he is praying;
  Ham. Now, mother, what's the matter?
  Ham. O God!
  Ham. O God, I could be bounded in a nutshell and count myself a
  Ham. O God, your only jig-maker! What should a man do but be merry?
  Ham. O Jephthah, judge of Israel, what a treasure hadst thou!
  Ham. O all you host of heaven! O earth! What else?
  Ham. O good Horatio, I'll take the ghost's word for a thousand
  Ham. O my prophetic soul!
  Ham. O that this too too solid flesh would melt,
  Ham. O wonderful son, that can so stonish a mother! But is there no
  Ham. O, but she'll keep her word.
  Ham. O, horrible! O, horrible! most horrible!
  Ham. O, reform it altogether! And let those that play your clowns
  Ham. Or like a whale.
  Ham. Pale or red?
  Ham. Rest, rest, perturbed spirit! So, gentlemen,
  Ham. Saw? who?
  Ham. Seems, madam, Nay, it is. I know not 'seems.'
  Ham. Sir, I cannot.
  Ham. Sir, I lack advancement.
  Ham. Sir, a whole history.
  Ham. Sir, my good friend- I'll change that name with you.
  Ham. Slanders, sir; for the satirical rogue says here that old men
  Ham. So be it!
  Ham. So long? Nay then, let the devil wear black, for I'll have a
  Ham. So you must take your husbands.- Begin, murtherer. Pox, leave
  Ham. Speak the speech, I pray you, as I pronounc'd it to you,
  Ham. Speak. I am bound to hear.
  Ham. Such an act
  Ham. That if you be honest and fair, your honesty should admit no
  Ham. That you must teach me. But let me conjure you by the rights
  Ham. That's a fair thought to lie between maids' legs.
  Ham. The King doth wake to-night and takes his rouse,
  Ham. The King my father?
  Ham. The air bites shrewdly; it is very cold.
  Ham. Then I would you were so honest a man.
  Ham. Then are our beggars bodies, and our monarchs and outstretch'd
  Ham. Then came each actor on his ass-
  Ham. Then is doomsday near! But your news is not true. Let me
  Ham. Then saw you not his face?
  Ham. Then will I come to my mother by-and-by.- They fool me to the
  Ham. Then you live about her waist, or in the middle of her
  Ham. There's neer a villain dwelling in all Denmark
  Ham. These tedious old fools!
  Ham. They are coming to the play. I must be idle.
  Ham. Thrift, thrift, Horatio! The funeral bak'd meats
  Ham. To be, or not to be- that is the question:
  Ham. Upon my sword.
  Ham. Upon the talk of the poisoning?
  Ham. Very like, very like. Stay'd it long?
  Ham. Very well. Follow that lord- and look you mock him not.
  Ham. We shall know by this fellow. The players cannot keep counsel;
  Ham. We shall obey, were she ten times our mother. Have you any
  Ham. We'll ha't to-morrow night. You could, for a need, study a
  Ham. Well said, old mole! Canst work i' th' earth so fast?
  Ham. Well, God-a-mercy.
  Ham. What did you enact?
  Ham. What hour now?
  Ham. What's the matter now?
  Ham. What, are they children? Who maintains 'em? How are they
  Ham. What, frighted with false fire?
  Ham. What, ho, Horatio!
  Ham. What, look'd he frowningly.
  Ham. What?
  Ham. Whither wilt thou lead me? Speak! I'll go no further.
  Ham. Who, I?
  Ham. Why did you laugh then, when I said 'Man delights not me'?
  Ham. Why,
  Ham. Why,
  Ham. Why, anything- but to th' purpose. You were sent for; and
  Ham. Why, look you now, how unworthy a thing you make of me! You
  Ham. Why, right! You are in the right!
  Ham. Why, then 'tis none to you; for there is nothing either good
  Ham. Why, what should be the fear?
  Ham. With drink, sir?
  Ham. Words, words, words.
  Ham. Yes, by Saint Patrick, but there is, Horatio,
  Ham. You are welcome.
  Ham. You cannot, sir, take from me anything that I will more
  Ham. You should not have believ'd me; for virtue cannot so
  Ham. Your loves, as mine to you. Farewell.
  Ham. Your wisdom should show itself more richer to signify this to
  Ham. [aside] A little more than kin, and less than kind!
  Ham. [aside] Nay then, I have an eye of you.- If you love me, hold
  Ham. [aside] Wormwood, wormwood!
  Ham. [draws] How now? a rat? Dead for a ducat, dead!
  Hamlet, son to the former, and nephew to the present king.
  Hor. 'Tis here!
  Hor. (within) My lord, my lord!
  Hor. A countenance more in sorrow than in anger.
  Hor. A mote it is to trouble the mind's eye.
  Hor. A piece of him.
  Hor. A truant disposition, good my lord.
  Hor. And then it started, like a guilty thing
  Hor. As I do live, my honour'd lord, 'tis true;
  Hor. As thou art to thyself.
  Hor. Be rul'd. You shall not go.
  Hor. Before my God, I might not this believe
  Hor. Do not, my lord!
  Hor. Do, if it will not stand.
  Hor. Friends to this ground.
  Hor. Good my lord, tell it.
  Hor. Hail to your lordship!
  Hor. Half a share.
  Hor. Have after. To what issue wail this come?
  Hor. He waxes desperate with imagination.
  Hor. Heaven secure him!
  Hor. Heaven will direct it.
  Hor. Here, sweet lord, at your service.
  Hor. I did very well note him.
  Hor. I saw him once. He was a goodly king.
  Hor. I think it lacks of twelve.
  Hor. I warr'nt it will.
  Hor. In faith,
  Hor. In what particular thought to work I know not;
  Hor. Indeed, my lord, it followed hard upon.
  Hor. Indeed? I heard it not. It then draws near the season
  Hor. Is it a custom?
  Hor. It beckons you to go away with it,
  Hor. It is a nipping and an eager air.
  Hor. It was, as I have seen it in his life,
  Hor. It would have much amaz'd you.
  Hor. Look, my lord, it comes!
  Hor. Most constantly.
  Hor. Most like. It harrows me with fear and wonder.
  Hor. My lord, I came to see your father's funeral.
  Hor. My lord, I did;
  Hor. My lord, I think I saw him yesternight.
  Hor. My lord, the King your father.
  Hor. Nay, very pale.
  Hor. No, by no means!
  Hor. Not I, my lord, by heaven!
  Hor. Not when I saw't.
  Hor. O day and night, but this is wondrous strange!
  Hor. O, my dear lord!
  Hor. O, where, my lord?
  Hor. O, yes, my lord! He wore his beaver up.
  Hor. Propose the oath, my lord.
  Hor. Season your admiration for a while
  Hor. So have I heard and do in part believe it.
  Hor. Stay! Speak, speak! I charge thee speak!
  Hor. That can I.
  Hor. The same, my lord, and your poor servant ever.
  Hor. There needs no ghost, my lord, come from the grave
  Hor. There's no offence, my lord.
  Hor. These are but wild and whirling words, my lord.
  Hor. Tush, tush, 'twill not appear.
  Hor. Two nights together had these gentlemen
  Hor. Very well, my lord.
  Hor. Well, my lord.
  Hor. Well, sit we down,
  Hor. What art thou that usurp'st this time of night
  Hor. What if it tempt you toward the flood, my lord,
  Hor. What is't, my lord? We will.
  Hor. What news, my lord?
  Hor. While one with moderate haste might tell a hundred.
  Hor. You might have rhym'd.
  Horatio, friend to Hamlet.
  King. 'Tis sweet and commendable in your nature, Hamlet,
  King. And can you by no drift of circumstance
  King. Arm you, I pray you, to th', speedy voyage;
  King. As of a man faithful and honourable.
  King. But how hath she
  King. Do you think 'tis this?
  King. Give me some light! Away!
  King. Have you heard the argument? Is there no offence in't?
  King. Have you your father's leave? What says Polonius?
  King. How fares our cousin Hamlet?
  King. How is it that the clouds still hang on you?
  King. How may we try it further?
  King. I have nothing with this answer, Hamlet. These words are not
  King. I like him not, nor stands it safe with us
  King. It likes us well;
  King. It shall be so.
  King. Love? his affections do not that way tend;
  King. Not that I know.
  King. O, speak of that! That do I long to hear.
  King. Sweet Gertrude, leave us too;
  King. Take thy fair hour, Laertes. Time be thine,
  King. Thanks, Rosencrantz and gentle Guildenstern.
  King. Thanks, dear my lord.
  King. Thou still hast been the father of good news.
  King. Though yet of Hamlet our dear brother's death
  King. Thyself do grace to them, and bring them in.
  King. We doubt it nothing. Heartily farewell.
  King. We will try it.
  King. Welcome, dear Rosencrantz and Guildenstern.
  King. Well, we shall sift him.
  King. What do you call the play?
  King. Why, 'tis a loving and a fair reply.
  King. With all my heart, and it doth much content me
  King. [aside] O, 'tis too true!
  King. [rises] My words fly up, my thoughts remain below.
  Laer. Farewell, Ophelia, and remember well
  Laer. Farewell.                                          Exit.
  Laer. For Hamlet, and the trifling of his favour,
  Laer. Most humbly do I take my leave, my lord.
  Laer. My dread lord,
  Laer. My necessaries are embark'd. Farewell.
  Laer. O, fear me not!
  Laer. Think it no more.
  Laertes, son to Polonius.
  Lords, ladies, Officers, Soldiers, Sailors, Messengers, Attendants.
  Mar. 'Tis gone and will not answer.
  Mar. 'Tis gone!
  Mar. And liegemen to the Dane.
  Mar. Good now, sit down, and tell me he that knows,
  Mar. Holla, Bernardo!
  Mar. Horatio says 'tis but our fantasy,
  Mar. How is't, my noble lord?
  Mar. Illo, ho, ho, my lord!
  Mar. Is it not like the King?
  Mar. It faded on the crowing of the cock.
  Mar. It is offended.
  Mar. Let's follow. 'Tis not fit thus to obey him.
  Mar. Look with what courteous action
  Mar. Lord Hamlet!
  Mar. My good lord!
  Mar. My lord, upon the platform where we watch'd.
  Mar. Nay, let's follow him.
  Mar. No, it is struck.
  Mar. Nor I, my lord- in faith.
  Mar. Nor I, my lord.
  Mar. O, farewell, honest soldier.
  Mar. O, wonderful!
  Mar. Peace! break thee off! Look where it comes again!
  Mar. Question it, Horatio.
  Mar. Shall I strike at it with my partisan?
  Mar. Something is rotten in the state of Denmark.
  Mar. Thou art a scholar; speak to it, Horatio.
  Mar. Thus twice before, and jump at this dead hour,
  Mar. We have sworn, my lord, already.
  Mar. What, has this thing appear'd again to-night?
  Mar. You shall not go, my lord.
  Marcellus, Officer.
  Marcellus, officer.
  Oph. 'Tis brief, my lord.
  Oph. 'Tis in my memory lock'd,
  Oph. And hath given countenance to his speech, my lord,
  Oph. At home, my lord.
  Oph. Ay, my lord.
  Oph. Ay, my lord.
  Oph. Belike this show imports the argument of the play.
  Oph. Could beauty, my lord, have better commerce than with honesty?
  Oph. Do you doubt that?
  Oph. Good my lord,
  Oph. He hath, my lord, of late made many tenders
  Oph. He took me by the wrist and held me hard;
  Oph. I do not know, my lord, what I should think,
  Oph. I shall obey, my lord.
  Oph. I shall th' effect of this good lesson keep
  Oph. I think nothing, my lord.
  Oph. I was the more deceived.
  Oph. Indeed, my lord, you made me believe so.
  Oph. Madam, I wish it may.
  Oph. My honour'd lord, you know right well you did,
  Oph. My lord, I do not know,
  Oph. My lord, I have remembrances of yours
  Oph. My lord, as I was sewing in my closet,
  Oph. My lord, he hath importun'd me with love
  Oph. My lord?
  Oph. Nay 'tis twice two months, my lord.
  Oph. No more but so?
  Oph. No, my good lord; but, as you did command,
  Oph. No, my lord.
  Oph. O heavenly powers, restore him!
  Oph. O my lord, my lord, I have been so affrighted!
  Oph. O, help him, you sweet heavens!
  Oph. O, what a noble mind is here o'erthrown!
  Oph. So please you, something touching the Lord Hamlet.
  Oph. Still better, and worse.
  Oph. The King rises.
  Oph. What is, my lord?
  Oph. What means this, my lord?
  Oph. What means your lordship?
  Oph. Will he tell us what this show meant?
  Oph. You are as good as a chorus, my lord.
  Oph. You are keen, my lord, you are keen.
  Oph. You are merry, my lord.
  Oph. You are naught, you are naught! I'll mark the play.
  Ophelia, daughter to Polonius.
  Osric, courtier.
  Player. I hope we have reform'd that indifferently with us, sir.
  Player. I warrant your honour.
  Players.
  Pol. 'And in part him, but,' you may say, 'not well.
  Pol. 'Tis most true;
  Pol. Affection? Pooh! You speak like a green girl,
  Pol. And let him ply his music.
  Pol. And the Queen too, and that presently.
  Pol. And then, sir, does 'a this- 'a does- What was I about to say?
  Pol. At 'closes in the consequence'- Ay, marry!
  Pol. At such a time I'll loose my daughter to him.
  Pol. Away, I do beseech you, both away
  Pol. Ay, fashion you may call it. Go to, go to!
  Pol. Ay, or drinking, fencing, swearing, quarrelling,
  Pol. Ay, springes to catch woodcocks! I do know,
  Pol. By th' mass, and 'tis like a camel indeed.
  Pol. Come, go with me. I will go seek the King.
  Pol. Come, sirs.
  Pol. Do you know me, my lord?
  Pol. Faith, no, as you may season it in the charge.
  Pol. Fare you well, my lord.
  Pol. Farewell!
  Pol. Fore God, my lord, well spoken, with good accent and good
  Pol. Give first admittance to th' ambassadors.
  Pol. Give him this money and these notes, Reynaldo.
  Pol. Give o'er the play.
  Pol. God b' wi' ye, fare ye well!
  Pol. Good madam, stay awhile. I will be faithful.     [Reads.]
  Pol. Hath there been such a time- I would fain know that-
  Pol. Have I, my lord? Assure you, my good liege,
  Pol. He hath, my lord, wrung from me my slow leave
  Pol. He will come straight. Look you lay home to him.
  Pol. Honest, my lord?
  Pol. I did enact Julius Caesar; I was kill'd i' th' Capitol; Brutus
  Pol. I have, my lord.
  Pol. I hear him coming. Let's withdraw, my lord.
  Pol. I mean, the matter that you read, my lord.
  Pol. I will say so.                                      Exit.
  Pol. I would fain prove so. But what might you think,
  Pol. If you call me Jephthah, my lord, I have a daughter that I
  Pol. Indeed, that is out o' th' air. [Aside] How pregnant sometimes
  Pol. It is back'd like a weasel.
  Pol. It shall do well. But yet do I believe
  Pol. Look, whe'r he has not turn'd his colour, and has tears in's
  Pol. Mad for thy love?
  Pol. Madam, I swear I use no art at all.
  Pol. Marry, I will teach you! Think yourself a baby
  Pol. Marry, sir, here's my drift,
  Pol. Marry, well bethought!
  Pol. Marry, well said, very well said. Look you, sir,
  Pol. My lord, I have news to tell you.
  Pol. My lord, I will use them according to their desert.
  Pol. My lord, he's going to his mother's closet.
  Pol. My lord, the Queen would speak with you, and presently.
  Pol. Not I, my lord.
  Pol. Observe his inclination in yourself.
  Pol. Ophelia, walk you here.- Gracious, so please you,
  Pol. Th' ambassadors from Norway, my good lord,
  Pol. That did I, my lord, and was accounted a good actor.
  Pol. That hath made him mad.
  Pol. That's good! 'Mobled queen' is good.
  Pol. That's very true, my lord.
  Pol. The actors are come hither, my lord.
  Pol. The best actors in the world, either for tragedy, comedy,
  Pol. The time invites you. Go, your servants tend.
  Pol. This business is well ended.
  Pol. This is too long.
  Pol. Upon my honour-
  Pol. Very like a whale.
  Pol. Well be with you, gentlemen!
  Pol. What do you think of me?
  Pol. What follows then, my lord?
  Pol. What is the matter, my lord?
  Pol. What is't, Ophelia, he hath said to you?
  Pol. What said he?
  Pol. What treasure had he, my lord?
  Pol. Wherefore should you do this?
  Pol. With what, i' th' name of God I
  Pol. Yet here, Laertes? Aboard, aboard, for shame!
  Pol. You go to seek the Lord Hamlet. There he is.
  Pol. You know sometimes he walks four hours together
  Pol. You shall do marvell's wisely, good Reynaldo,
  Pol. [aside] How say you by that? Still harping on my daughter. Yet
  Pol. [aside] Still on my daughter.
  Pol. [aside] Though this be madness, yet there is a method in't.-
  Pol. [behind] O, I am slain!
  Pol. [behind] What, ho! help, help, help!
  Pol. [points to his head and shoulder] Take this from this, if this
  Pol. [to the King] O, ho! do you mark that?
  Polonius, Lord Chamberlain.
  Queen. Alas, he's mad!
  Queen. Alas, how is't with you,
  Queen. As kill a king?
  Queen. Ay me, what act,
  Queen. Ay, amen!
  Queen. But look where sadly the poor wretch comes reading.
  Queen. Came this from Hamlet to her?
  Queen. Come hither, my dear Hamlet, sit by me.
  Queen. Come, come, you answer with an idle tongue.
  Queen. Did he receive you well?
  Queen. Did you assay him
  Queen. Good Hamlet, cast thy nighted colour off,
  Queen. Good gentlemen, he hath much talk'd of you,
  Queen. Hamlet, thou hast thy father much offended.
  Queen. Have you forgot me?
  Queen. How fares my lord?
  Queen. I doubt it is no other but the main,
  Queen. I shall obey you;
  Queen. I'll warrant you; fear me not. Withdraw; I hear him coming.
  Queen. If it be,
  Queen. Let not thy mother lose her prayers, Hamlet.
  Queen. More matter, with less art.
  Queen. Nay, then I'll set those to you that can speak.
  Queen. No more!
  Queen. O Hamlet, speak no more!
  Queen. O me, what hast thou done?
  Queen. O, speak to me no more!
  Queen. O, what a rash and bloody deed is this!
  Queen. So he does indeed.
  Queen. Thanks, Guildenstern and gentle Rosencrantz.
  Queen. The lady doth protest too much, methinks.
  Queen. What have I done that thou dar'st wag thy tongue
  Queen. What wilt thou do? Thou wilt not murther me?
  Queen. Why, how now, Hamlet?
  Queen. it may be, very like.
  Rey. As gaming, my lord.
  Rey. At 'closes in the consequence,' at 'friend or so,' and
  Rey. Ay, my lord,
  Rey. Ay, very well, my lord.
  Rey. But, my good lord-
  Rey. Good my lord!                                    [Going.]
  Rey. I shall, my lord.
  Rey. I will, my lord.
  Rey. My lord, I did intend it.
  Rey. My lord, I have.
  Rey. My lord, that would dishonour him.
  Rey. Very good, my lord.
  Rey. Well, my lord.
  Reynaldo, servant to Polonius.
  Ros. As the indifferent children of the earth.
  Ros. Ay, my lord. They stay upon your patience.
  Ros. Ay, that they do, my lord- Hercules and his load too.
  Ros. Both your Majesties
  Ros. Even those you were wont to take such delight in, the
  Ros. Faith, there has been much to do on both sides; and the nation
  Ros. Good my lord!
  Ros. Good my lord, what is your cause of distemper? You do surely
  Ros. Happily he's the second time come to them; for they say an old
  Ros. He does confess he feels himself distracted,
  Ros. How can that be, when you have the voice of the King himself
  Ros. I think their inhibition comes by the means of the late
  Ros. Madam, it so fell out that certain players
  Ros. Most like a gentleman.
  Ros. My lord, there was no such stuff in my thoughts.
  Ros. My lord, you once did love me.
  Ros. My most dear lord!
  Ros. Nay, their endeavour keeps in the wonted pace; but there is,
  Ros. Neither, my lord.
  Ros. Niggard of question, but of our demands
  Ros. No indeed are they not.
  Ros. None, my lord, but that the world's grown honest.
  Ros. She desires to speak with you in her closet ere you go to bed.
  Ros. The single and peculiar life is bound
  Ros. Then is the world one.
  Ros. Then thus she says: your behaviour hath struck her into
  Ros. To think, my lord, if you delight not in man, what lenten
  Ros. To visit you, my lord; no other occasion.
  Ros. To what end, my lord?
  Ros. Truly, and I hold ambition of so airy and light a quality that
  Ros. We shall, my lord.
  Ros. We think not so, my lord.
  Ros. Why, then your ambition makes it one. 'Tis too narrow for your
  Ros. [aside to Guildenstern] What say you?
  Ros. [to Polonius] God save you, sir!
  Rosencrantz, courtier.
  Two Clowns, gravediggers.
  Volt. Most fair return of greetings and desires.
  Voltemand, courtier.
 and then, you know,
A room in the Castle.
ACT I. Scene I.
ACT III. Scene I.
Act II. Scene I.
Dramatis Personae
Elsinore. A platform before the Castle.
Elsinore. A room in the Castle.
Elsinore. A room in the Castle.
Elsinore. A room in the house of Polonius.
Elsinore. A room in the house of Polonius.
Elsinore. A room of state in the Castle.
Elsinore. The Castle. Another part of the fortifications.
Elsinore. The platform before the Castle.
Elsinore. hall in the Castle.
Enter Ghost and Hamlet.
Enter Hamlet and three of the Players.
Enter Hamlet, Horatio, and Marcellus.
Enter King, Queen, Polonius, Ophelia, Rosencrantz, Guildenstern, and Lords.
Enter King, Rosencrantz, and Guildenstern.
Enter Laertes and Ophelia.
Enter Polonius and Reynaldo.
Enter Queen and Polonius.
Enter two Sentinels-[first,] Francisco, [who paces up and down
Exit.
Exit.
Flourish. [Enter Claudius, King of Denmark, Gertrude the Queen, Hamlet,
Flourish. [Enter King and Queen, Rosencrantz and Guildenstern, cum aliis.
Lords Attendant.
Polonius, Laertes and his sister Ophelia, [Voltemand, Cornelius,]
SCENE.- Elsinore.
Scene II.
Scene II.
Scene II.
Scene III.
Scene III.
Scene IV.
Scene IV.
Scene V.
The Queen's closet.
